; A ^A Ss d * P p Ni: 
UN u ee LOGAN BONNER, JASON BULMAHN wa Ø, , 
j i = X d a... b Ua" ^ 3 
STEPHEN RADNEY-MACFARLAND; AND MARK SEIFTER . 


A À s -an E Vy 


CORE RULEBOOK 
N 


^ ^ —— 
YSATHFIN DER) 
a 
GAME DESIGNERS TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Logan Bonner, Jason Bulmahn, 
Stephen Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter 


ADDITIONAL WRITING 
James Jacobs 


DEVELOPERS 
Adam Daigle, Lyz Liddell, and Erik Mona 


EDITORS 

Amirali Attar Olyaee, Judy Bauer, 

Christopher Paul Carey, James Case, Jaym Gates, 
Leo Glass, Jason Keeley, Avi Kool, Lyz Liddell, 
Luis Loza, Erik Mona, Adrian Ng, Lu Pellazar, 
Elsa Sjunneson-Henry, and Jason Tondro 


COVER ARTIST 
Wayne Reynolds 


INTERIOR ARTISTS 

Giorgio Baroni, Rogier van de Beek, 

Yanis Cardin, Sergio Cosmai, Biagio D'Alessandro, 
Michele Esposito, Giorgio Falconi, Taylor Fischer, 
Mariusz Gandzel, Igor Grechanyi, Hai Hoang, 
Roman Roland Kuteynikov, Setiawan Lie, 

Valeria Lutfullina, Damien Mammoliti, Rob McCaleb, 
Andrea Tentori Montalto, Stefano Moroni, 
Federico Musetti, Alexander Nanitchkov, 

Mirco Paganessi, Mary Jane Pajaron, 

Jose Parodi, Angelo Peluso, Roberto Pitturru, 
Konstantin Porubov, Wayne Reynolds, 

Kiki Moch Rizky, Riccardo Rullo, Bryan Sola, 
Matteo Spirito, Matias Tapia, Ben Wootten, and 


Sam Yang 

ART DIRECTION AND GRAPHIC DESIGN I INTRODUCTION 4 

Sarah E. Robinson and Sonja Morris Learn the basics of roleplaying games, get an overview of the rules, and see an example 

CREATIVE DIRECTOR of play. This section also covers how to build a character, as well as how to level up your 

James Jacobs character after adventuring. 

EE 2 ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS 32 
Choose the people your character belongs to—whether they're dwarves, elves, gnomes, 

SPECIAL THANKS goblins, halflings, or humans-then pick a background that fleshes out what your character 

Dave Arneson, Monte Cook, Ron Edwards, . 3 : : ’ 

Gary Gygax, Daniel Solis, John Stavropoulos, did before becoming an adventurer. Details on languages also appear in this chapter. 

Jonathan Tweet, Skip Williams, and all the 

participants in the Pathfinder Playtest 3 CLASSES 66 


Bold fighters, devout clerics, scholarly wizards, and inventive alchemists are just a few of 
the 12 character classes you can select from. This chapter also details animal companions, 
familiars, and multiclass archetypes that expand your character's abilities. 


4 SKILLS 232 


Execute acrobatic maneuvers, trick your enemies, tend to an ally's wounds, or learn all about 
strange creatures and magic using your training in skills. 


5 FEATS 254 


Expand your capabilities by selecting general feats that improve your statistics or give you 
new actions. This chapter includes skill feats, which are tied directly to your skills. 


Ó EQUIPMENT 270 


Gear up for adventure with this vast arsenal of armor, weapons, and gear. 


Paizo Inc. 
7120 185th Ave NE, Ste 120 7 SPELLS 296 
Red d, WA 98052-0577 1 Py ; irae ; 
i oie Learn to kindle magic in the palm of your hand. This section includes the rules for spellcasting, 
e 


20) paizo com hundreds of spell descriptions, focus spells used by certain classes, and rituals. 


CMM E : 


IO GAME MASTERING 482 


CONDITIONS APPENDIX 618 


CHARACTER SHEET 624 


GLOSSARY AND INDEX 628 


THE AGE OF LOST OMENS 416 
Discover the world of Golarion. In the Age of Lost Omens, you can delve into the secrets 
of ancient empires and claim your own heroic destiny. 


PLAYING THE GAME 442 
Read up on comprehensive rules for playing the game, 
using actions, and calculating your statistics. This includes 
rules on encounters, exploration, and downtime, as well as 
everything you need for combat. 


Prepare and run your games with the advice in this section. 
Rules for setting Difficulty Classes, granting rewards, 
environments, and hazards can also be found here. 


CRAFTING & TREASURE 530 
Award treasure, from magic weapons to alchemical compounds and 
transforming statues. The rules for activating and wearing alchemical and 
magical items are found here as well. 


Read up on conditions, from dying to slowed to frightened. These rules cover common 
benefits and drawbacks that typically come from spells or special actions. 


Quickly find the rules you need in a combined rules glossary and book index. 


With a haunting moan, shambling bodies rose up from the forgotten 
battlefield. Given foul unlife by the necromancy of the Whispering 
Tyrant, the corpses still wore the tattered raiment of their former 
lives. These crusaders had been the first to stand against the lich 
when he returned, and they were the first to fall in his rebirth. 

“Aroden is dead!” Valeros spat out the dead god’s name like a 
curse as he drew his sword and readied his battered shield. “He’s 
not coming back to save us this time.” Kyra and Merisiel shared his 
sentiment. The Whispering Tyrant was back, and it was up to them 
to return the lich to his grave. 

As Kyra strode up beside Valeros, blade in hand, she called out a 
prayer to her goddess. Sarenrae’s light would guide and fortify her 
against the coming darkness, but there would be no direct divine 
intervention in this war. Victory would be bought with the sweat and 
blood of mortals, and both the brave and the innocent would give 
their lives. 

Merisiel nodded to the others, a look of determination upon her 
face. Quickly scanning the horde, she found her first target and let fly 
a small blade. It sank to the hilt in the rotting eye socket of one of the 
dead crusaders, but while the foul creature staggered back, it did not 
fall. Unfazed, she drew another dagger and prepared to throw again. 

Provoked by the attack, the undead advanced as one, a wave of 
rotting flesh and clattering bone that descended on the heroes... 


CHAPTER I: INTRODUCTION 


Pathfinder is a fantasy tabletop roleplaying game (RPG) where you and a group of friends 
gather to tell a tale of brave heroes and cunning villains in a world filled with terrifying 


monsters and amazing treasures. More importantly, Pathfinder is a game where your 
character’s choices determine how the story unfolds. 


rs ——— a e ae 


Pathfinder adventures take place in the Age of Lost Omens, a perilous fantasy world 
rife with ancient empires; sprawling city-states; and countless tombs, dungeons, and 
monster lairs packed with plunder. A Pathfinder character’s adventures might take them 
to forsaken underwater ruins, haunted gothic crypts, or magical universities in jungle 
cities. A world of endless adventure awaits! 


WHAT IS A ROLEPLAYING GAME? 

A roleplaying game is an interactive story where one player, the Game Master (GM), sets 
the scene and presents challenges, while other players take the roles of player characters 
(PCs) and attempt to overcome those challenges. Danger comes in the form of monsters, 
devious traps, and the machinations of adversarial agents, but Pathfinder also provides 
political schemes, puzzles, interpersonal drama, and much, much more. 

The game is typically played in a group of four to seven players, with one of those 
players serving as the group’s Game Master. The GM prepares, presents, and presides 
over the game’s world and story, posing challenges and playing adversaries, allies, and 
bystanders alike. As each scene leads into the next, each player contributes to the story, 
responding to situations according to the personality and abilities of their character. 
Dice rolls, combined with preassigned statistics, add an element of chance and determine 
whether characters succeed or fail at actions they attempt. 


THE FLOW OF THE GAME 


Pathfinder is played in sessions, during which players gather in person or online for a few 
hours to play the game. A complete Pathfinder story can be as short as a single session, 
commonly referred to as a “one-shot,” or it can stretch on for multiple sessions, forming 
a campaign that might last for months or even years. If the Game Master enjoys telling 
the story and the players are entertained, the game can go as long as you like. 

A session can be mostly action, with battles with vile beasts, escapes from fiendish 
traps, and the completion of heroic quests. Alternatively, it could include negotiating with 
a baron for rights to a fort, infiltrating an army of lumbering frost giants, or bargaining 
with an angel for a strand of hair required for an elixir to revive a slain friend. Ultimately 
it’s up to you and your group to determine what kind of game you are playing, from 
dungeon exploration to a nuanced political drama, or anything in between. 


THE PLAYERS 


Everyone involved in a Pathfinder game is a player, including the Game Master, but for 
the sake of simplicity, “player” usually refers to participants other than the GM. Before 
the game begins, players invent a history and personality for their characters, using 
the rules to determine their characters’ statistics, abilities, strengths, and weaknesses. 
The GM might limit the options available during character creation, but the limits are 
discussed ahead of time so everyone can create interesting heroes. In general, the only 
limits to character concepts are the players’ imaginations and the GM's guidelines. 
During the game, players describe the actions their characters take and roll dice, using 
their characters’ abilities. The GM resolves the outcome of these actions. Some players 
enjoy acting out (or roleplaying) what they do as if they were their characters, while 
others describe their characters’ actions as if narrating a story. Do whatever feels best! 
If this is your first experience with a roleplaying game, it is recommended that 
you take on the role of a player to familiarize yourself with the rules and the world. 


THE FIRST RULE 

The first rule of Pathfinder is 
that this game is yours. Use 

it to tell the stories you want 
to tell, be the character you 
want to be, and share exciting 
adventures with friends. If 
any other rule gets in the way 
of your fun, as long as your 
group agrees, you can alter or 
ignore it to fit your story. The 
true goal of Pathfinder is for 
everyone to enjoy themselves. 


DICE 

Pathfinder requires a set 

of polyhedral dice. Each 

die has a different number 

of sides—four, six, eight, or 
more. When these dice are 
mentioned in the text, they're 
indicated by a "d" followed by 
the number of sides on the 
die. Pathfinder uses 4-sided 
dice (or d4), 6-sided dice (d6), 
8-sided dice (d8), 10-sided dice 
(d10), 12-sided dice (d12), and 
20-sided dice (d20). If you 
need to roll multiple dice, a 
number before the "d" tells you 
how many. For example, “4d6” 
means you should roll four 
dice, all 6-sided. If a rule asks 
for d%, you generate a number 
from 1 to 100 by rolling two 
10-sided dice, treating one as 
the tens place and the other as 
the ones place. 


EQUIPMENT 
E 


SPELLS 
ir 


ES 
. THE AGE DF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


THE GAME MASTER 


While the other players create and control their characters, 
the Game Master (or GM) is in charge of the story 
and world. The GM describes all the situations player 
characters experience in an adventure, considers how the 
actions of player characters affect the story, and interprets 
the rules along the way. 

The GM can create a new adventure—crafting a narrative, 
selecting monsters, and assigning treasure on their own— 
or they can instead rely on a published adventure, using 
it as a basis for the session and modifying it as needed to 
accommodate their individual players and the group’s style 
of play. Some even run games that combine original and 
published content, mixed together to form a new narrative. 

Being the GM is a challenge, requiring you to adjudicate 
the rules, narrate the story, and juggle other responsibilities. 
But it can also be very rewarding and worth all the work 
required to run a good game. If it is your first time running 
a game, remember that the only thing that matters is that 
everyone has a good time, and that includes you. Everything 
else will come naturally with practice and patience. 


GAMING IS FOR ALL 


Whether you are the GM or a player, participating in a 
tabletop roleplaying game includes a social contract: 
everyone has gathered together to have fun telling a story. 
For many, roleplaying is a way to escape the troubles of 
everyday life. Be mindful of everyone at the table and what 
they want out of the game, so that everyone can have fun. 
When a group gathers for the first time, they should talk 
about what they hope to experience at the table, as well as 
any topics they want to avoid. Everyone should understand 
that elements might come up that make some players feel 
uncomfortable or even unwelcome, and everyone should 
agree to respect those boundaries during play. That way, 
everyone can enjoy the game together. 

Pathfinder is a game for everyone, regardless of their age, 
gender, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or any 
other identities and life experiences. It is the responsibility 
of all of the players, not just the GM, to make sure the 
table is fun and welcoming to all. 


TOOLS OF PLAY 


In addition to this book, there are a few things you will 
need to play Pathfinder. These supplies can be found at 
your local hobby shop or online at paizo.com. 

Character Sheet: Each player will need a character 
sheet to create their character and to record what happens 
to that character during play. You can find a character 
sheet in the back of this book and online as a free pdf. 

Dice: The players and GM will need at least one set of 
polyhedral dice, although most participants bring their 
own. Six-sided dice are quite common, but all the dice in 
the set can be found at hobby game stores or online. See 
the Dice sidebar on page 7 for more on the different kinds 
of dice and how they are discussed in the text. 


Adventure: Every table needs an adventure to play, 
whether it’s designed by the GM or found in a published 
resource. You can find a variety of exciting adventures 
and even entire Adventure Path campaigns at paizo.com. 

Bestiary: From terrifying dragons to mischievous 
gremlins, monsters are a common threat that the PCs 
might face, and each type has its own statistics and 
abilities. These can be found in the Pathfinder Bestiary, an 
absolutely invaluable book for GMs. Monster statistics 
can also be found online for free at paizo.com/prd. 

Maps and Miniatures: The chaos of combat can be 
difficult to imagine, so many groups use maps to represent 
the battlefield. These maps are marked with a 1-inch grid, 
and each square represents 5 feet in the game. Miniatures 
and illustrated tokens called pawns are used to represent 
the characters and the adversaries they face. 

Additional Accessories: There are a number of 
additional accessories you can add to your game to 
enhance the experience, including tools that help you 
track turns in combat, decks of cards for referencing 
common rules, digital character-creation tools, and even 
background music and sound-effect sets. 


BASICS OF PLAY 

Before creating your first character or adventure, you 
should understand a number of basic concepts used in 
the game. New concepts are presented in bold to make 
them easy to find, but this chapter is only an introduction 
to the basics of play. The complete game rules are defined 
in later chapters, and the Glossary and Index in the back 
of this book will help you find specific rules you need. 


DEFINING CHARACTERS 


In Pathfinder, the players take on the role of player 
characters (PCs), while the Game Master portrays 
nonplayer characters (NPCs) and monsters. While PCs 
and NPCs are both important to the story, they serve very 
different purposes in the game. PCs are the protagonists— 
the narrative is about them—while NPCs and monsters 
are allies, contacts, adversaries, and villains. That said, 
PCs, NPCs, and monsters share several characteristics. 

Level is one of the most important statistics of the game, 
as it conveys the approximate power and capabilities of 
every individual creature. PCs range in level from 1st, at 
the start of the character’s adventuring career, to 20th, 
the very height of power. As the characters overcome 
challenges, defeat foes, and complete adventures, they 
accumulate Experience Points (XP). Every time a character 
amasses 1,000 XP, they go up a level, gaining new abilities 
so they can take on even greater challenges. A 1st-level PC 
might face off against a giant rat or a group of bandits, but 
at 20th level, that same character might be able to bring 
ruin to an entire city with a single spell. 

In addition to level, characters are defined by ability 
scores, which measure a character’s raw potential and are 


used to calculate most of their other statistics. There are six ability scores in the game. 
Strength represents a character’s physical might, while Dexterity represents agility 
and the ability to avoid danger. Constitution indicates a character’s overall health and 
well-being. Intelligence represents raw knowledge and problem-solving ability, while 
Wisdom measures a character’s insight and the ability to evaluate a situation. Finally, 
Charisma indicates charm, persuasiveness, and force of personality. Ability scores for 
ordinary folk range from as low as 3 to as high as 18, with 10 representing average 
human capabilities. High-level characters can have ability scores that range much 
higher than 18. 

An ability score that’s above the average increases your chance of success at tasks 
related to the ability score, while those below the average decrease your chance. This 
adjustment is called an ability modifier. 

Your player character is also defined by some key choices you make. The first choice 
is a PC’s ancestry, representing the character’s parents and heritage, such as human, 
elf, or goblin. Next up is the PC’s background, which describes their upbringing, from 
lowly street urchin to wealthy noble. Finally, and most importantly, a PC’s class defines 
the majority of their aptitudes and abilities, like a wizard’s command of powerful 
arcane spells or a druid’s power to transform into a fearsome beast! 

In addition to these key choices, player characters also have a number of feats— 
individual abilities selected during character creation and as the character increases 
in level. Every feat has a type to denote where its explanation can be found (for 
example, elf feats can be found in the elf ancestry) and its theme (wizard feats, for 
example, grant abilities that deal with spells). Finally, characters have skills that 
measure their ability to hide, swim, bargain, and perform other common tasks. 


CREATING A NARRATIVE 


Characters and their choices create the story of Pathfinder, but how they interact 
with each other and the world around them is governed by rules. So, while you might 
decide that your character undertakes an epic journey to overcome terrifying foes 
and make the world a safer place, your character’s chance of success is determined 
by their abilities, the choices you make, and the roll of the dice. 

The GM determines the premise and background of most adventures, although 
character histories and personalities certainly play a part. Once a game 
session begins, the players take turns describing what their 
characters attempt to do, while the GM determines 
the outcome, with the table working together 


toward a specific goal. The GM also describes As 


the environment, other characters! actions, 
and events. For example, the GM might 
announce that the characters’ hometown 

is under attack by marauding trolls. The 


A 


TEN 


characters might track the trolls to a nearby 
swamp—only to discover that the trolls were driven 


AZ 
she 
from their swamp by a fearsome dragon! The EF, « 
PCs then have the choice of taking on an E 
entire tribe of trolls, the dragon, or 
both. Whatever they decide, their 
success depends on their choices and 
the die rolls they make during play. 
A single narrative—including the 
setup, plot, and conclusion—is called 
an adventure. A series of adventures 
creates an even larger narrative, called 
a campaign. An adventure might take 
several sessions to complete, whereas a 
campaign might take months or even years! 


THE WORLD AS A 
PARTICIPANT 


Aside from characters and 
monsters, the world of 
Pathfinder itself can be a 
force at the table and in 

the narrative. While the 
presence of the larger world 
can sometimes be an obvious 
hazard, such as when a 
powerful storm lashes the 
countryside, the world can 
also act in subtle, small ways. 
Traps and treasures are just 
as important in many tales 
as cunning beasts. To help 
you understand these game 
elements, many of them use 
the same characteristics as 
characters and monsters. For 
example, most environmental 
hazards have a level, which 
indicates how dangerous they 
are, and the level of a magic 
item gives you a sense of its 
overall power and impact on 
a story. 


INTRODUCTION 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES - 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

| EQUIPMENT 


| SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


.-»—- 
Br. 


PLAYING THE GAME 


In a Pathfinder game, three modes of play determine the 
pacing of each scene in the story. Most of your character’s 
time is spent in exploration, uncovering mysteries, solving 
problems, and interacting with other characters. The 
Age of Lost Omens abounds with danger, however, and 
characters often find themselves in an encounter, fighting 
savage beasts and terrifying monsters. Finally, time moves 
quickly when the characters enjoy downtime, a respite 
from the world’s troubles and a chance to rest and train 
for future expeditions. Throughout an adventure, game 
play moves between these three modes many times, as 
needed for the story. The more you play the game, the 
more you'll see that each mode has its own play style, but 
moving from mode to mode has few hard boundaries. 

During the game, your character will face situations 
where the outcome is uncertain. A character might need 
to climb a sheer cliff, track down a wounded chimera, or 
sneak past a sleeping dragon, all of which are dangerous 
tasks with a price for failure. In such cases, the acting 
character (or characters) will be asked to attempt a check 
to determine whether or not they succeed. A check is 
usually made by rolling a single 20-sided die (a d20) and 
adding a number based on the relevant ability. In such 
cases, rolling high is always good. 

Once a check is rolled, the GM compares the result to a 
target number called the difficulty class (DC) to determine 
the outcome. If the result of the check is equal to or greater 
than the DC, the check is successful. If it is less, the check is 
a failure. Beating the DC by 10 or more is referred to as a 
critical success, which usually grants an especially positive 
outcome. Similarly, failing the check by 10 or more is a 
critical failure (sometimes called a fumble). This sometimes 
results in additional negative effects. You also often score a 
critical success by rolling a 20 on the die when attempting 
a check (before adding anything). Likewise, rolling a 1 on 
the die when attempting a check often results in a critical 
failure. Note that not all checks have a special effect on a 
critical success or critical failure and such results should 
be treated just like an ordinary success or failure instead. 

For example, in pursuit of the wounded chimera, your 
character might find the path blocked by a fast-moving 
river. You decide to swim across, but the GM declares this 
a dangerous task and asks you to roll an Athletics skill 
check (since swimming is covered by the Athletics skill). On 
your character sheet, you see that your character has a «8 
modifier for such checks. Rolling the d20, you get an 18, for 
a total of 26. The GM compares this to the DC (which was 
16) and finds that you got a critical success (since the result 
exceeded the DC by 10). Your character swims quickly 
across the river and continues the pursuit, drenched but 
unharmed. Had you gotten a result less than 26 but equal 
to or greater than 16, your character would have made it 
halfway across the river. Had your result been less than 16, 
your character might have been swept downriver or, worse, 
been pulled under the current and begun to drown! 


Checks like this are the heart of the game and are rolled 
all the time, in every mode of play, to determine the outcome 
of tasks. While the roll of the die is critical, the statistic you 
add to the roll (called a modifier) often makes the difference 
between success and failure. Every character is made up 
of many such statistics governing what the character is 
good at, each consisting of a relevant ability modifier plus 
a proficiency bonus, and sometimes modified further by 
other factors, such as bonuses or penalties from gear, spells, 
feats, magic items, and other special circumstances. 

Proficiency is a simple way of assessing your character's 
general level of training and aptitude for a given task. It 
is broken into five different ranks: untrained, trained, 
expert, master, and legendary. Each rank grants a different 
proficiency bonus. If you're untrained at a statistic, your 
proficiency bonus is +0—you must rely solely on the raw 
potential of your ability modifier. If your proficiency rank 
for a statistic is trained, expert, master, and legendary, your 
bonus equals your character's level plus another number 
based on the rank (2, 4, 6, and 8, respectively). Proficiency 
ranks are part of almost every statistic in the game. 


EXPLORATION 


Most of the time, your character will explore the world, 
interact with characters, travel from place to place, and 
overcome challenges. This is called exploration. Game play 
is relatively free-form during exploration, with players 
responding to the narrative whenever they have an idea of 
what to do next. Leaving town via horseback, following the 
trail of a marauding orc tribe, avoiding the tribe’s scouts, and 
convincing a local hunter to help in an upcoming fight are 
all examples of things that might occur during exploration. 

Throughout this mode of play, the GM asks the players 
what their characters are doing as they explore. This is 
important in case a conflict arises. If combat breaks out, 
the tasks the PCs undertook while exploring might give 
them an edge or otherwise inform how the combat begins. 


ENCOUNTERS 


In the course of your adventures, there will be times when 
a simple skill check is not enough to resolve a challenge— 
when fearsome monsters stand in your character’s way 
and the only choice is to do battle. In Pathfinder, this is 
called an encounter. Encounters usually involve combat, 
but they can also be used in situations where timing is 
critical, such as during a chase or when dodging hazards. 

While exploration is handled in a free-form manner, 
encounters are more structured. The players and GM roll 
initiative to determine who acts in what order. The encounter 
occurs over a number of rounds, each of which is equal to 
about 6 seconds of time in the world of the game. During 
a round, each participant takes a turn. When it’s your 
turn to act, you can use up to three actions. Most simple 
things, such as drawing a weapon, moving a short distance, 
opening a door, or swinging a sword, use a single action to 
perform. There are also activities that use more than a single 


action to perform; these are often special abilities from your 


character’s class and feats. One common activity in the game 
is casting a spell, which usually uses two actions. 

Free actions, such as dropping an object, don’t count 
toward the three actions you can take on your turn. Finally, 
each character can use up to one reaction during a round. 
This special type of action can be used even when it’s not 
your turn, but only in response to certain events, and only 
if you have an ability that allows it. Rogues, for example, 
can select a feat that lets them use their reaction to dodge 
an incoming attack. 

Attacking another creature is one of the most common 
actions in combat, and is done by using the Strike action. 
This requires an attack roll—a kind of check made against 
the Armor Class (AC) of the creature you’re attacking. 
Strikes can be made using weapons, spells, or even parts 
of a creature’s body, like a fist, claw, or tail. You add a 
modifier to this roll based on your proficiency rank with 
the type of attack you’re using, your ability scores, and 
any other bonuses or penalties based on the situation. 
The target’s AC is calculated using their proficiency rank 
in the armor they’re wearing and their Dexterity modifier. 
An attack deals damage if it hits, and rolling a critical 
success results in the attack dealing double damage! 

You can use more than one Strike action on your turn, 
but each additional attack after the first becomes less 
accurate. This is reflected by a multiple attack penalty 
that starts at —5 on the second attack, but increases to -10 


> INTRODUCTION 


on the third. There are many ways to reduce this penalty, 
and it resets at the end of your turn. 

If your character finds themself the target of a magical 
lightning bolt or the freezing breath of a fearsome white 
dragon, you will be called on to attempt a saving throw, 
representing your character’s ability to avoid danger or 
otherwise withstand an assault to their mind or body. A 
saving throw is a check attempted against the DC of the 
spell or special ability targeting your character. There are 
three types of saving throws, and a character’s proficiency 
in each says a great deal about what they can endure. A 
Fortitude saving throw is used when your character’s health 
or vitality is under attack, such as from poison or disease. 
A Reflex saving throw is called for when your character 
must dodge away from danger, usually something that 
affects a large area, such as the scorching blast of a fireball 
spell. Finally, a Will saving throw is often your defense 
against spells and effects that target your character’s mind, 
such as a charm or confusion spell. For all saving throws, 
a success lessens the harmful effect, and scoring a critical 
success usually means your character escapes unscathed. 

Attacks, spells, hazards, and special abilities frequently 
either deal damage to a character or impose one or more 
conditions—and sometimes both. Damage is subtracted 
from a creature’s Hit Points (HP)—a measure of health— 
and when a creature is reduced to 0 HP, it falls unconscious 
and may die! A combat encounter typically lasts until one 
side has been defeated, and while this can mean retreat or 


FX 


INTRODUCTION 


OF 
ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


SP APM = eee | 
SORE RULEBC A 


atl — at nd a 


surrender, it most often happens because one side is dead or 
dying. Conditions can hinder a creature for a time, limiting 
the actions they can use and applying penalties to future 
checks. Some conditions are even permanent, requiring a 
character to seek out powerful magic to undo their effects. 


DOWNTIME 


Characters don’t spend 


adventuring. Instead, they recover from wounds, plan 


every waking moment 


future conquests, or pursue a trade. In Pathfinder, this is 
called downtime, and it allows time to pass quickly while 
characters work toward long-term tasks or objectives. 
Most characters can practice a trade in downtime, 
earning a few coins, but those with the right skills can 
instead spend time crafting, creating new gear or even 
magic items. Characters can also use downtime to retrain, 
replacing one character choice with another to reflect their 
evolving priorities. They might also research a problem, 
learn new spells, or even run a business or kingdom! 


KEY TERMS 


There are a number of important terms that you’ll need 
to know as you create your first character or adventure. 
Some of the most important terms mentioned on previous 
pages are also included here for reference. 


Apiuity Score 

Each creature has six ability scores: Strength, Dexterity, 
Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma. These 
Scores represent a creature’s raw potential and basic 
attributes. The higher the score, the greater the creature's 
potential in that ability. Ability scores are described in full 
later in this chapter. 


ALIGNMENT 
Alignment represents a creature's fundamental moral and 
ethical attitude. 


ANCESTRY 

An ancestry is the broad family of people that a character 
belongs to. Ancestry determines a character's starting Hit 
Points, languages, senses, and Speed, and it grants access 
to ancestry feats. Ancestries can be found in Chapter 2. 


Armor Crass [AE] 


All creatures in the game have an Armor Class. This score 
represents how hard it is to hit and damage a creature. It 
serves as the Difficulty Class for hitting a creature with 
an attack. 


ATTACK 

When a creature tries to harm another creature, it makes 
a Strike or uses some other attack action. Most attacks 
are Strikes made with a weapon, but a character might 
Strike with their fist, grapple or shove with their hands, 
or attack with a spell. 


BACKGROUND 

A. background represents what a character experienced 
before they took up the life of an adventurer. Each 
background grants a feat and training in one or more 
skills. You can read more about backgrounds in Chapter 2. 


Bonuses Aun PENALTIES 

Bonuses and penalties apply to checks and certain 
statistics. There are several types of bonuses and penalties. 
If you have more than one bonus of the same type, you 
use only the highest bonus. Likewise, you use only the 
worst penalty of each type. 


Cass 

A class represents the adventuring profession chosen by 
a character. A character’s class determines most of their 
proficiencies, grants the character Hit Points each time 
they gain a new level, and gives access to a set of class 
feats. Classes appear in Chapter 3. 


CONDITION 

An ongoing effect that changes how a character can act, or 
that alters some of their statistics, is called a condition. The 
rules for the basic conditions used in the game can be found 
in the Conditions Appendix at the back of this book. 


CurRENCY 

The most common currencies in the game are gold pieces 
(gp) and silver pieces (sp). One gp is worth 10 sp. In 
addition, 1 sp is worth 10 copper pieces (cp), and 10 gp 
are worth 1 platinum piece (pp). Characters begin play 
with 15 gp (or 150 sp) to spend on equipment. 


FEAT 

A feat is an ability you can select for your character due to 
their ancestry, background, class, general training, or skill 
training. Some feats grant the ability to use special actions. 


Game Master [GM] 


The Game Master is the player who adjudicates the rules 
and narrates the various elements of the Pathfinder story 
and world that the other players explore. 


GOLARION 

Pathfinder is set on the planet Golarion during the Age of 
Lost Omens. It is an ancient world with a rich diversity 
of people and cultures, exciting locations to explore, and 
deadly villains. More information on the Age of Lost 
Omens, the world of Golarion, and its deities can be 
found in Chapter 8. 


Hir Pots [HP] 


Hit Points represent the amount of punishment a creature 
can take before it falls unconscious and begins dying. 
Damage decreases Hit Points on a 1-to-1 basis, while 
healing restores Hit Points at the same rate. 


INITIATIVE 

At the start of an encounter, all creatures involved roll for 
initiative to determine the order in which they act. The 
higher the result of its roll, the earlier a creature gets to act. 
Initiative and combat are described in Chapter 9. 


LEVEL 
A level is a number that measures something’s overall 
power. Player characters have a level, ranging from 1st 
to 20th, representing their level of experience. Monsters, 
NPCs, hazards, diseases, and poisons have levels ranging 
from -1 to 30 that measure the danger they pose. An item's 
level, usually within the range of 0 to 20 but sometimes 
higher, indicates its power and suitability as treasure. 
Spells have levels ranging from 1st to 10th, which 
measure their power; characters and monsters can usually 
cast only a certain number of spells of any given level. 


Nonpcayer Cuaracter [NPC] 
A nonplayer character, controlled by the GM, interacts 
with players and helps advance the story. 


PERCEPTION 

Perception measures your character’s ability to notice 
hidden objects or unusual situations, and it usually 
determines how quickly the character springs into action 
in combat. It is described in full in Chapter 9. 


Prayer Cuaracter (PC) 
This is a character created and controlled by a player. 


PROFICIENCY 

Proficiency is a system that measures a character’s aptitude 
at a specific task or quality, and it has five ranks: untrained, 
trained, expert, master, and legendary. Proficiency gives 
you a bonus that’s added when determining the following 
modifiers and statistics: AC, attack rolls, Perception, saving 
throws, skills, and the effectiveness of spells. If you’re 
untrained, your proficiency bonus is +0. If you’re trained, 
expert, master, or legendary, your proficiency bonus equals 
your level plus 2, 4, 6, or 8, respectively. 


Rarity 

Some elements of the game have a rarity to denote how 
often they’re encountered in the game world. Rarity 
primarily applies to equipment and magic items, but 
spells, feats, and other rules elements also have a rarity. 
If no rarity appears in the traits of an item, spell, or other 
game element, it is of common rarity. Uncommon items are 
available only to those who have special training, grew up 
in a certain culture, or come from a particular part of the 
world. Rare items are almost impossible to find and are 
usually given out only by the GM, while unique ones are 
literally one-of-a-kind in the game. The GM might alter the 
way rarity works or change the rarity of individual items 
to suit the story they want to tell. 


ROLEPLAYING 

Describing a character’s actions, often while acting from 
the perspective of the character, is called roleplaying. When 
a player speaks or describes action from the perspective of 
a character, they are “in character.” 


Rowno 

A round is a period of time during an encounter in which 
all participants get a chance to act. A round represents 
approximately 6 seconds in game time. 


Savine Turow [Save] 
When a creature is subject to a dangerous effect that must 
be avoided, it attempts a saving throw to mitigate the effect. 
You attempt a saving throw automatically—you don’t 
have to use an action or a reaction. Unlike for most checks, 
the character who isn’t acting rolls the d20 for a saving 
throw, and the creature who is acting provides the DC. 
There are three types of saving throws: Fortitude (to 
resist diseases, poisons, and physical effects), Reflex (to 
evade effects a character could quickly dodge), and Will 
(to resist effects that target the mind and personality). 


SKILL 

A skill represents a creature’s ability to perform certain 
tasks that require instruction or practice. Skills are fully 
described in Chapter 4. Each skill includes ways anyone 
can use that skill even if untrained, as well as uses that 
require a character to be trained in the skill. 


SPEED 
Speed is the distance a character can move using a single 
action, measured in feet. 


SPELL 

Spells are magical effects created by performing mystical 
incantations and gestures known only to those with special 
training or inborn abilities. Casting a spell is an activity 
that usually uses two actions. Each spell specifies what it 
targets, the actions needed to cast it, its effects, and how 
it can be resisted. If a class grants spells, the basics of that 
ability are provided in the class description in Chapter 3, 
while the spells themselves are detailed in Chapter 7. 


TRAIT 

A trait is a keyword that conveys additional information 
about a rules element, such as a school of magic or rarity. 
Often, a trait indicates how other rules interact with an 
ability, creature, item, or another rules element that has 
that trait. All the traits used in this book appear in the 
Glossary and Index beginning on page 628. 


TURN 

During the course of a round, each creature takes a single 
turn according to initiative. A creature can typically use 
up to three actions during its turn. 


* 
.. THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
2 GAME 


EXAMPLE OF PLAY 

The following example is presented to give you a better idea 
of how the game of Pathfinder is played. In this adventure, 
Erik is the GM. Lyz is playing Valeros, a daring human 
fighter, James is playing Merisiel, a deadly elven rogue, and 
Judy is taking on the role of Kyra, a fiery human cleric of 
Sarenrae. The group has just defeated a horde of undead 
and is making its way into an ancient mausoleum. 


Erik: The entrance to the crypt stands before you, 
a set of crumbling stairs leading down into 
darkness. A terrible smell issues forth from the 
doorway—the stench of old, rotted flesh. — 
Lyz: I’m not afraid of a foul stink! I draw my sword 
and ready my shield. ER 
The light of Sarenrae will guide us. I cast my 
light spell on my religious symbol. Lr 
All right, a glowing radiance spills forth, 
illuminating the stairs. They appear to go 


J udy: 


Erik: 


down only about 10 feet before opening up 
into a chamber. Puddles of stagnant water fill 
the cracks between uneven stone tiles. 


James: I should go first to make sure it's safe. I’m going 
to draw my rapier and carefully go down the 
a stairs, looking for traps as I go. na id 
Erik: Sure, but looking for traps is a secret check, so I'll 
roll for you. What's your Perception modifier? - 
Ihave a +5. 


James: 


Erik rolls a d20 behind his GM screen, hidden from the 
players’ view, and gets a 17 on the die for a total of 22, 
more than enough to find the trip wire on the third step. 


grows stronger until it’s almost overpowering. 
Suddenly you see the source of the horrid odor. 
Rising up out of the casket is a nightmarish 
dead thing. It might have once been a human, 
but it’s hard to tell from its withered body. Its 
flesh is the color of a new bruise, pulled so 
tight across its bones that it has split in places. 
It’s hairless, with pointed ears, but worst of all, 
its mouth is lined with tiny, sharp teeth and its 
tongue is entirely too long. 


Lyz: So, not a friend? 


Most certainly not. It looks poised to leap at 
you and attack. Roll for initiative! Valeros and 
Kyra need to roll Perception, while Merisiel 
should roll Stealth. 


Everyone rolls for their initiative. Lyz rolls a 2 for Valeros, 
getting a total of 8. Judy rolls better for Kyra, getting 
a total of 14. James uses Stealth for Initiative, because 
Merisiel was hiding at the start of the fight, and rolls a 
17 for a total of 25! Erik rolls for the undead creature, 
getting a 12. Erik records all these totals, putting the 
characters in order from highest to lowest. 


Erik: Looks like Merisiel gets to act first. Whatever 
that thing is, you’re pretty sure it doesn’t know 

EN you are there. SEA 
James Awesome! For my first action, I want to draw a 
dagger. For my second, I want to move closer. _ 

Erik You can get to within 15 feet of it with one 
Stride action. xt 

James: Perfect. For my final action, I’m going to throw 


my dagger at it! 


Erik: Your caution pays off! You spot a thin wire 

located at ankle height just above the third stair. James rolls a 13 and adds 8, due to Merisiel’s skill at 

James: I point it out to the others and head down. thrown daggers, for a total of 21, but the range means 

Lyz: I follow right behind Merisiel, avoiding the wire he takes a —2 penalty for a result of 19. Erik consults his 

cort but otherwise keeping an eye out for danger. _ notes to learn that the monster has an AC of 18. 

Judy: Me too. E wos ALES UT oo Eu a 

Erik: Okay! You make it down the stairs to find Erik: ^ That’s a hit! Go ahead and roll damage. 
yourselves in a crypt. Ancient wood coffins are James: Okay, and I get to add extra damage due to 
arranged around the room, covered in cobwebs = sneak attack. | 
and dust. Directly ahead, on a raised dais, is 
a stone casket adorned with wicked-looking Rogues have the ability to deal extra damage to foes that 
symbols. You can tell that it was once wrapped haven't acted yet in an encounter. This extra damage also 
in iron chains, but now twisted links are scattered applies to attacks against enemies that are distracted. James 
around the room, along with chunks of what rolls 1d4 for the dagger and 1d6 for the sneak attack, and 
must have been the casket’s lid. From the damage, he adds 4 for Merisiel’s Dexterity, getting a total of 9. 

5. it looks like it was shattered from within! — — 4 i | 
Judy: Sarenrae protect us. I draw my blade and Erik: It hisses as the blade sinks into its shoulder. That 
|.  .. advance—lI want a better look at those symbols. looks like it hurt, but the undead thing doesn't 
Lyz: I'll keep pace with her. I don’t like the look of this. appear to be slowing down. James, that was all 
James:  Ithink I'll stay back here and hide behind one Tii three of your actions. Next up is Kyra! 
ee of the coffins. Judy: Ithink this is undead. What do I know about it? 
Erik: Merisiel takes cover while the two of you Erik: You use an action to recall your training about 


advance. As you draw near, the stench of rot 


the living dead. Give me a Religion skill check. 


Judy rolls a 16, adding Kyra’s +8 with Religion to get a 
total of 24. 


Erik knows this is a hit and rolls the ghast’s claw damage, 
getting a total of 8. 


Erik: At first, you thought this thing might be a Erik: Take 8 points of damage, and I need you to 
ghoul, which is a type of undead that feasts attempt a Fortitude saving throw as a numbing 
on the flesh of the dead, but the terrible smell sensation spreads from the wound. 
reveals the truth. This thing is a ghast, a more 
powerful type of ghoul. You are pretty sure James rolls a Fortitude saving throw. He gets a 4 on the 
that its stench can make you sick and that its die, and after adding his bonus and the penalty from the 
claws can paralyze you with a touch. sickened condition, it comes out to only a 9. 

Judy: This is bad. I am going to spend my last two 
actions to cast bless. It gives anyone nexttome James: This isn’t my day. I don't suppose a 9 is good 
a +1 bonus to attack rolls. enough? 

Erik: I am afraid not. You are paralyzed! 


Casting this spell is an activity that requires two actions 
to complete, and it has two components. The complex 
gestures needed to invoke the spell are the somatic 
component, and Kyra’s prayers to her deity are the 
verbal component. 


Erik: Okay! The ghast leaps from the casket straight 
toward Merisiel. The stench of its rotting 
body is absolutely horrific up close. Attempt a 


Fortitude save! 


Erik notes that Merisiel is paralyzed, making her unable 
to act, but she will get a new saving throw at the end of 
each of her turns to shake off the effect. 


Erik: A dry, creaking laugh escapes the ghast’s curled 
lips, but that’s the end of its turn. Valeros, you 
are the last one to act this round. 

Lyz: About time, too! I raise my shield and use my 


final two actions to make a Sudden Charge! 


James rolls an 8, for a total of 14. 


Sudden Charge is a fighter feat that lets Valeros move up 
to twice his Speed and attack at the end of his movement, 


Erik: Not quite enough—you gain the sickened 1 all for only two actions. 
condition, which is going to give you a -1 : 
penalty to most of your d20 rolls. Next, it Erik: As you draw near, the smell is horrific. Attempt 
lunges at you, trying to bite you! a Fortitude save. 

James: Ohno! I use my reaction to nimbly dodge out 


of the way. 


Erik rolls an attack roll for the ghast, getting an 9 on the 
die. Looking at the monster’s statistics, he adds 11 for a 
total of 20. Merisiel's AC is normally 19, but the Nimble 
Dodge feat lets ber use ber reaction to increase ber AC by 2 
against a single attack. In this case, it turns the ghast's attack 


After rolling, Lyz gets a 19 on the Fortitude save. 


Erik: You fight off the nausea from this thing's 


stench. Make your attack roll. 


Lyz rolls tbe die and it comes up a 20. 


Lyz: Igot a 20! That must be a critical success! 
Erik: 


Your blade hits the vile creature right in the 
neck, dealing double damage! 


into a miss. 

Erik: Does a 20 hit you? 

James: Nope, just missed! 

Erik: You twist away from the ghast as its tongue 


leaves a slimy film on your armor. With its final 
action, the undead menace lashes out at you 
with its claw. 


Lyz rolls a 5 on her d8, then adds 4 because of Valeros's 
Strength modifier. Because it is a critical success, she then 
doubles tbe total. 


Erik rolls a second attack with the ghast, this time with its 
claw. Normally this attack would take a -5 multiple attack 
penalty, but since the claw has the agile trait, the penalty is 
only —4. He rolls a 19 on the die, adds 11 for the ghoul’s 
attack modifier and subtracts 4, for a total of 26. 


Erik: You may have dodged the ghast's bite, but the 


thing's bony claw rakes across your face! 


Lyz: A mighty 18 damage! That surely had to kill it! 
Erik: 


I'm afraid not. Black ichor runs from the deep 
wound on its neck, but it only turns to look at 
you. You can see burning hatred in its eyes! 
Lyz: Uh-oh. 


That is the end of the first round of combat. The second 
round begins immediately after this, using the same 
initiative order as before. The fight is far from over... 


| INTRODUCTION 


MT a SON a tS A 
CORE RULEBOOK j 


v- A ÁÓ 


USING THIS BOOK 

While this chapter is here to teach you the basics of 
Pathfinder, the rest of this rulebook serves as a reference 
manual during play, and it is organized to make finding 
the rule you need as easy as possible. Rules are grouped 
together in chapters, with the early chapters focusing on 
character creation. The last two chapters contain rules 
for GMs, with advice on how to run a game of Pathfinder 
and a rich array of treasure. The following is a summary 
of what you can expect to find in each chapter. 


CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION 


This introduction is designed to help you understand the 
basics of Pathfinder. This chapter also includes the rules 
for building and leveling up a character. The chapter ends 
with an example of building a 1st-level character. 


CHAPTER 2: ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS 


The rules for the most common ancestries in the Age of 
Lost Omens are in this chapter, including their ancestry 
feat options. Backgrounds are at the end of this chapter, 
along with a section about languages, as these are most 
often influenced by your choice of ancestry. 


CHAPTER 3: CLASSES 


This chapter contains the rules for all 12 classes. Each 
class entry includes guidelines on playing the class, rules 
for building and advancing a character of that class, 
sample builds, and all of the class feats available to 
members of that class. This chapter also includes rules 
for animal companions and familiars, which can be 
acquired by members of several different classes. At the 
end of this chapter are the rules for archetypes—special 
options available to characters as they increase in level. 
These rules allow a character to dabble in the abilities of 
another class or concept. 


CHAPTER 4: SKILLS 


The rules for using skills are presented in this chapter, 
and they detail what a character can do with a given 
skill, based on that character’s proficiency rank. 
Ancestry, background, and class can define some of 
a character’s skill proficiencies, and each character 
can also select a few additional skills to reflect their 
personality and training. 


CHAPTER 5: FEATS 


As a character advances in level, they gain additional 
feats to represent their growing abilities. General feats 
and skill feats (which are a subset of general feats) are 
presented in this chapter. 


CHAPTER 6: EQUIPMENT 


Armor, weapons, and other gear can all be found in this 
chapter, along with the price for services, cost of living, 
and animals (such as horses, dogs, and pack animals). 


CHAPTER 7: SPELLS 


This chapter starts with rules for casting spells, 
determining their effects, and getting rid of foes’ spells 
(called counteracting). After that, the spell lists for 
each spellcasting tradition are included, making it easy 
to quickly find spells by their level. Next are rules for 
every spell, presented in alphabetical order. Following 
the spell descriptions are all of the focus spells—special 
spells granted by specific class abilities and feats. While 
most spells appear on multiple spell lists, focus spells 
are granted only to members of a specific class and are 
grouped together by class for ease of reference. Finally, at 
the end of the chapter are rules for rituals, complicated 
and risky spells that any character can cast. 


CHAPTER 8: THE AGE OF LOST OMENS 


The setting of Golarion is described in this chapter, 
including a brief overview of the world and its people, 
followed by a timeline of events. Most importantly, 
characters who venerate a deity should look to this 
chapter to find the rules associated with their faith. 


CHAPTER 9: PLAYING THE GAME 


This important chapter contains the universal rules 
needed to play Pathfinder, including rules for the various 
modes of play, the basic actions that every character can 
perform, the rules for combat, and the rules for death and 
dying. Every player should be familiar with this chapter, 
especially the GM. 


CHAPTER 10: GAME MASTERING 


Packed full of guidelines and advice, this chapter helps 
Game Masters tell an interesting and compelling story. 
It also includes advice on creating a fun and encouraging 
game space and guides for empowering players to create 
characters they want to play. This chapter also includes 
rules that are particularly important for the GM to know, 
such as rules dealing with traps, environmental dangers, 
and afflictions (such as curses, diseases, and poisons), as 
well as guidance on setting DCs and handing out rewards 
to player characters. 


CHAPTER 11: CRAFTING & TREASURE 


The treasures characters find during their adventures 
take many forms, from gold and gemstones to powerful 
magical weapons. This chapter details guidelines for 
distributing treasure to characters, as well as descriptions 
of hundreds of magic items. This chapter also contains 
the rules for alchemical items. 


APPENDICES 


The back of this book has an appendix with the rules 
for all of the conditions that you will find in the game. 
This section also includes a blank character sheet, and an 
index with a comprehensive glossary of common terms 
and traits that you’ll encounter in the game. 


FORMAT OF RULES ELEMENTS 

Throughout this rulebook, you will see formatting standards that might look a 
bit unusual at first. Specifically, the game’s rules are set apart in this text using 
specialized capitalization and italicization. These standards are in place to make 
the rules elements in this book easier to recognize. 

The names of specific statistics, skills, feats, actions, and some other mechanical 
elements in Pathfinder are capitalized. This way, when you see the statement “a Strike 
targets Armor Class,” you know that both Strike and Armor Class are referring 
to rules. 

If a word or a phrase is italicized, it is describing a spell or a magic item. This way, 
when you see the statement “the door is sealed by lock,” you know that in this case 
the word denotes the Jock spell, rather than a physical item. 

Pathfinder also uses many terms that are typically expressed as abbreviations, like 
AC for Armor Class, DC for Difficulty Class, and HP for Hit Points. If you’re ever 
confused about a game term or an abbreviation, you can always turn to the Glossary 
and Index, beginning on page 628, and look it up. 


UNDERSTANDING ACTIONS 


Characters and their adversaries affect the world of Pathfinder by using actions 
and producing effects. This is especially the case during encounters, when every 
action counts. When you use an action, you generate an effect. This effect might 
be automatic, but sometimes actions necessitate that you roll a die, and the effect is 
based on what you rolled. 

Throughout this book, you will see special icons to denote actions. 


+> Since Actions 
Single actions use this symbol: *. They're the simplest, most common type of action. 
You can use three single actions on your turn in an encounter, in any order you see fit. 


> Reactions 

Reactions use this symbol: 2. These actions can be used even when it’s not your 
turn. You get only one reaction per encounter round, and you can use it only when 
its specific trigger is fulfilled. Often, the trigger is another creature's action. 


©} Free Actions 


Free actions use this symbol: ©. Free actions don’t require you to spend any of 
your three single actions or your reaction. A free action might have a trigger like 
a reaction does. If so, you can use it just like a reaction—even if it's not your turn. 
However, you can use only one free action per trigger, so if you have multiple free 
actions with the same trigger, you have to decide which to use. If a free action 
doesn't have a trigger, you use it like a single action, just without spending any of 
your actions for the turn. 


Activities 

Activities are special tasks that you complete by spending one or more of your actions 
together. Usually, an activity uses two or more actions and lets you do more than a 
single action would allow. You have to spend all the actions an activity requires for 
its effects to happen. Spellcasting is one of the most common activities, as most spells 
take more than a single action to cast. 

Activities that use two actions use this symbol: *99. Activities that use three 
actions use this symbol: 995. A few special activities, such as spells you can cast in 
an instant, can be performed by spending a free action or a reaction. 

All tasks that take longer than a turn are activities. If an activity is meant to 
be done during exploration, it has the exploration trait. An activity that takes a 
day or more of commitment and that can be done only during downtime has the 
downtime trait. 


> 


Single Action 


95 


Two-Action 
Activity 


92» 


Three-Action 
Activity 


2 


Reaction 


o 


Free Action 


EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 
tt 


ie 
D 

—. THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
= _ GAME 


Al 


CORE RULEBOOK 7 


READING RULES 


This book contains hundreds of rules elements that 
give characters new and interesting ways to respond to 
situations in the game. All characters can use the basic 
actions found in Chapter 9, but an individual character 
often has special rules that allow them to do things most 
other characters can’t. Most of these options are feats, 
which are gained by making certain choices at character 
creation or when a character advances in level. 

Regardless of the game mechanic they convey, rules 
elements are always presented in the form of a stat block, 
a summary of the rules necessary to bring the monster, 
character, item, or other rules element to life during play. 
Where appropriate, stat blocks are introduced with an 
explanation of their format. For example, the Ancestry 
section of Chapter 2 contains rules for each of the game’s 
six core ancestries, and an explanation of these rules 
appears at the beginning of that chapter. 

The general format for stat blocks is shown below. Entries 
are omitted from a stat block when they don’t apply, so not 
all rule elements have all of the entries given below. Actions, 
reactions, and free actions each have the corresponding icon 
next to their name to indicate their type. An activity that 
can be completed in a single turn has a symbol indicating 


how many actions are needed to complete it; activities that 


take longer to perform omit these icons. If a character must 
attain a certain level before accessing an ability, that level 
is indicated to the right of the stat block’s name. Rules also 


& 
"ee. 
^ Y ` 
— F E 
Ùt <j 
SSS ^ 
- 
= 
= e Aar > 
- GE 
< N 
7% 
/ 
m m6 49 


often have traits associated with them (traits appear in the 
Glossary and Index). 

Spells, alchemical items, and magic items use a similar 
format, but their stat blocks contain a number of unique 
elements (see Chapter 7 for more on reading spells, and 
Chapter 11 for more on alchemical and magic items). 


ACTION OR FEAT NAME *> LEVEL 

Prerequisites Any minimum ability scores, feats, proficiency 
ranks, or other prerequisites you must have before you can 
access this rule element are listed here. Feats also have a level 
prerequisite, which appears above. 

Frequency This is the limit on how many times you can use 
the ability within a given time. 

Trigger Reactions and some free actions have triggers that 
must be met before they can be used. 

Requirements Sometimes you must have a certain item or be 
in a certain circumstance to use an ability. If so, it’s listed 
in this section. 

This section describes the effects or benefits of a rule element. 

If the rule is an action, it explains what the effect is or what 

you must roll to determine the effect. If it's a feat that modifies 

an existing action or grants a constant effect, the benefit is 
explained here. 

Special Any special qualities of the rule are explained in 
this section. Usually this section appears in feats you can select 
more than once, explaining what happens when you do. 


CHARACTER CREATION 


Unless you’re the GM, the first thing you need to do when 
playing Pathfinder is create your character. It’s up to you to 
imagine your character’s past experiences, personality, and 
worldview, and this will set the stage for your roleplaying 
during the game. You’ll use the game’s mechanics to 
determine your character’s ability to perform various tasks 
and use special abilities during the game. 

This section provides a step-by-step guide for creating a 
character using the Pathfinder rules, preceded by a guide to 
help you understand ability scores. These scores are a critical 
part of your character, and you will be asked to make choices 
about them during many of the following steps. The steps of 
character creation are presented in a suggested order, but 
you can complete them in whatever order you prefer. 

Many of the steps on pages 21-28 instruct you to fill out 
fields on your character sheet. The character sheet is shown 
on pages 24-25; you can find a copy in the back of this book 
or online as a free pdf. The character sheet is designed to 
be easy to use when you’re actually playing the game—but 
creating a character happens in a different order, so you'll 
move back and forth through the character sheet as you 
go through the character creation process. Additionally, the 
character sheet includes every field you might need, even 
though not all characters will have something to put in each 
field. If a field on your character sheet is not applicable to 
your character, just leave that field blank. 

All the steps of character creation are detailed on the 
following pages; each is marked with a number that 
corresponds to the sample character sheet on pages 24-25, 
showing you where the information goes. If the field 
you need to fill out is on the third or fourth page of the 
character sheet, which aren’t shown, the text will tell you. 

If you’re creating a higher-level character, it’s a good 
idea to begin with the instructions here, then turn to 
page 29 for instructions on leveling up characters. 


THE SIX ABILITY SCORES 


One of the most important aspects of your character is 
their ability scores. These scores represent your character’s 
raw potential and influence nearly every other statistic on 
your character sheet. Determining your ability scores is 
not done all at once, but instead happens over several 
steps during character creation. 

Ability scores are split into two main groups: physical 
and mental. Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution are 
physical ability scores, measuring your character’s physical 
power, agility, and stamina. In contrast, Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma are mental ability scores and 
measure your character’s learned prowess, awareness, and 
force of personality. 

Excellence in an ability score improves the checks and 
statistics related to that ability, as described below. When 
imagining your character, you should also decide what 
ability scores you want to focus on to give you the best 
chance at success. 


STRENGTH 
Strength measures your character’s physical power. 
Strength is important if your character plans to engage in 
hand-to-hand combat. Your Strength modifier gets added 
to melee damage rolls and determines how much your 
character can carry. 


DEXTERITY 

Dexterity measures your character’s agility, balance, and 
reflexes. Dexterity is important if your character plans 
to make attacks with ranged weapons or use stealth to 
surprise foes. Your Dexterity modifier is also added to 
your character’s AC and Reflex saving throws. 


CONSTITUTION 

Constitution measures your character’s overall health 
and stamina. Constitution is an important statistic for 
all characters, especially those who fight in close combat. 
Your Constitution modifier is added to your Hit Points 
and Fortitude saving throws. 


INTELLIGENCE 

Intelligence measures how well your character can learn 
and reason. A high Intelligence allows your character to 
analyze situations and understand patterns, and it means 
they can become trained in additional skills and might be 
able to master additional languages. 


Wispom 

Wisdom measures your character’s common sense, 
awareness, and intuition. Your Wisdom modifier is added 
to your Perception and Will saving throws. 


CHARISMA 
Charisma measures your character’s personal magnetism 
and strength of personality. A high Charisma score helps 
you influence the thoughts and moods of others. 


‘SAVING THROWS: 


LANGUAGES 


ay 
d 


Sd gl 


PMENT 


ES 
"y 


- THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


SPELLS 
Wt 


PLAYING THE 
2 GAME 


aa L 
MASTERING 


Xm sai tior alt 


FINDER) CorE RULEBOOK 3 
— ell 


ABILITY SCORE OVERVIEW 


Each ability score starts at 10, representing human 
average, but as you make character choices, you'll adjust 
these scores by applying ability boosts, which increase a 
score, and ability flaws, which decrease a score. As you 
build your character, remember to apply ability score 
adjustments when making the following decisions. 

Ancestry: Each ancestry provides ability boosts, and 
sometimes an ability flaw. If you are taking any voluntary 
flaws, apply them in this step (see the sidebar on page 26). 

Background: Your character's background provides two 
ability boosts. 

Class: Your character's class provides an ability boost to 
the ability score most important to your class, called your 
key ability score. 

Determine Scores: After the other steps, you apply four 
more ability boosts of your choice. Then, determine your 
ability modifiers based on those scores. 


AniLiry Boosts 
An ability boost normally increases an ability score's 
value by 2. However, if the ability score to which you're 
applying an ability boost is already 18 or higher, its value 
increases by only 1. At 1st level, a character can never 
have any ability score that's higher than 18. 

When your character receives an ability boost, the rules 
indicate whether it must be applied to a specific ability 
score or to one of two specific ability scores, or whether it 


is a “free” ability boost that can be applied to any ability 
score of your choice. However, when you gain multiple 
ability boosts at the same time, you must apply each one to 
a different score. Dwarves, for example, receive an ability 
boost to their Constitution score and their Wisdom score, 
as well as one free ability boost, which can be applied to 
any score other than Constitution or Wisdom. 


AgiuiTY FLaws 

Ability flaws are not nearly as common in Pathfinder as 
ability boosts. If your character has an ability flaw—likely 
from their ancestry—you decrease that ability score by 2. 


ABILITY MODIFIERS 


Once you’ve finalized your ability scores, you can use them 
to determine your ability modifiers, which are used in most 
other statistics in the game. Find the score in Table 1-1: 
Ability Modifiers to determine its ability modifier. 


TABLE 1-1: ABILITY MODIFIERS 
Ability Score Modifier 


Ability Score Modifier 


1 -5 14-15 +2 
2-3 -4 16-17 +3 
4-5 -3 18-19 +4 
6-7 -2 20-21 +5 
8-9 -1 22-23 +6 

10-11 +0 24-25 +7 
12-13 +1 etc... 


ALTERNATIVE METHOD: ROLLING ABILITY SCORES 


The standard method of generating ability scores that's 
described above works great if you want to create a perfectly 
customized, balanced character. But your GM may decide to 
add a little randomness to character creation and let the dice 
decide what kind of character the players are going to play. In 
that case, you can use this alternative method to generate your 
ability scores. Be warned—the same randomness that makes 
this system fun also allows it to sometimes create characters 
that are significantly more (or less) powerful than the standard 
ability score system and other Pathfinder rules assume. 

If your GM opts for rolling ability scores, follow these 
alternative steps, ignoring all other instructions and guidelines 
about applying ability boosts and ability flaws throughout the 
character generation process. 


STEP 1: ROLL AND ASSIGN SCORES 

Roll four 6-sided dice (4d6) and discard the lowest die result. 
Add the three remaining results together and record the sum. 
(For example, if you rolled a 2, 4, 5, and 6, you would discard 
the 2 and your total would be 15.) Repeat this process until 
you've generated six such values. Decide which value you want 
for each of your ability scores. 


STEP 2: ASSIGN ABILITY BOOSTS AND 
ABILITY FLAWS 
Apply the ability boosts your character gains from their 
ancestry, but your character gets one fewer free ability 
boost than normal. If your character’s ancestry has any 
ability flaws, apply those next. Finally, apply one ability 
boost to one of the ability scores specified in the character's 
background (you do not get the other free ability boost). 
These ability boosts cannot raise a score above 18. If this 
would happen, you can put the ability boost into another 
ability score instead, as if it were a free ability boost, or you 
can put it into an ability score of 17 to reach 18 and lose the 
excess increase. 


STEP 3: RECORD SCORES AND MODIFIERS 

Record the final scores and assign the ability modifiers 
according to Table 1-1. When your character receives 
additional ability boosts at higher levels, you assign them 
as any character would. 


agile 


bh STEP I 
CREATE A CONCEPT 


What sort of hero do you want to play? The answer to 


this question might be as simple as *a brave warrior" or as 
complicated as “the child of elven wanderers, but raised in a 
city dominated by humans and devoted to Sarenrae, goddess 
of the sun." Consider your character's personality, sketch out 
a few details about their past, and think about how and why 
they adventure. You'll want to peruse Pathfinder's available 
ancestries, backgrounds, and classes. The summaries on 
pages 22-23 might help you match your concept with some 
of these basic rule elements. Before a game begins, it's also 
a good idea for the players to discuss how their characters 
might know each other and how they'll work together 
throughout the course of their adventures. 

There are many ways to approach your character concept. 
Once you have a good idea of the character you'd like to 
play, move on to Step 2 to start building your character. 


ANCESTRY, BACKGROUND, CLASS, OR DETAILS 


If one of Pathfinder’s character ancestries, backgrounds, 
or classes particularly intrigues you, it’s easy to build a 
character concept around these options. The summaries of 
ancestries and classes on pages 22-23 give a brief overview 
of these options (full details appear in Chapters 2 and 3, 
respectively). Each ancestry also has several heritages that 
might refine your concept further, such as a human with an 
elf or orc parent, or an arctic or woodland elf. Additionally, 
the game has many backgrounds to choose from, 
representing your character’s upbringing, their family’s 
livelihood, or their earliest profession. Backgrounds are 
detailed later in Chapter 2, beginning on page 60. 

Building a character around a specific ancestry, 
background, or class can be a fun way to interact with the 
world’s lore. Would you like to build a typical member 
of your character’s ancestry or class, as described in the 
relevant entry, or would you prefer to play a character 
who defies commonly held notions about their people? 
For example, you could play a dwarf with a wide-eyed 
sense of wonder and a zest for change, or a performing 
rogue capable of amazing acrobatic feats but with little 
interest in sneaking about. 

You can draw your concept from any aspect of a 
character’s details. You can use roleplaying to challenge 
not only the norms of Pathfinder’s fictional world, but 
even real-life societal norms. Your character might 
challenge gender notions, explore cultural identity, have a 
disability, or any combination of these suggestions. Your 
character can live any life you see fit. 


FAITH 


Perhaps you’d like to play a character who is a devout 
follower of a specific deity. Pathfinder is a rich world with 
myriad faiths and philosophies spanning a wide range, 
from Cayden Cailean, the Drunken Hero of good-hearted 


ANCESTRIES AND CLASSES 
Each player takes a different approach to creating a 
character. Some want a character who will fit well into the 
story, while others look for a combination of abilities that 
complement each other mechanically. You might combine 
these two approaches. There is no wrong way! 

When you turn the page, you'll see a graphical 
representation of ancestries and classes that provide at-a- 
glance information for players looking to make the most of 
their starting ability scores. In the ancestries overview on 
page 22, each entry lists which ability scores it boosts, and 
also indicates any ability flaws the ancestry might have. 
You can find more about ability boosts and ability flaws in 
Ability Scores on page 20. 

The summaries of the classes on pages 22-23 list each 
class's key ability score—the ability score used to calculate 
the potency of many of their class abilities. Characters 
receive an ability boost in that ability score when you choose 
their class. This summary also lists one or more secondary 
ability scores important to members of that class. 

Keep in mind a character's background also affects their 
ability scores, though theres more flexibility in the ability 
boosts from backgrounds than in those from classes. For 
descriptions of the available backgrounds, see pages 60-64. 


adventuring; to Desna, the Song of Spheres and goddess of 
dreaming and the stars; to Iomedae, the Inheritor, goddess 
of honor, justice, and rulership. Pathfinder's major deities 
appear on pages 437-440. Your character might be so 
drawn to a particular faith that you decide they should be a 
champion or cleric of that deity; they might instead be a lay 
worshipper who applies their faith's teachings to daily life, 
or simply the child of devout parents. 


YOUR ALLIES 


You might want to coordinate with other players when 
forming your character concept. Your characters could 
have something in common already; perhaps they are 
relatives, or travelers from the same village. You might 
discuss mechanical aspects with the other players, creating 
characters whose combat abilities complement each 
other. In the latter case, it can be helpful for a party to 
include characters who deal damage, characters who can 
absorb damage, and characters who can provide healing. 
However, Pathfinder's classes include a lot of choices, and 
there are many options for building each type of character, 
so don't let these broad categories restrict your decisions. 


Once you've developed your character's concept, jot down 
a few sentences summarizing your ideas under the Notes 
section on the third page of your character sheet. Record 
any of the details you've already decided, such as your 
character's name, on the appropriate lines on the first page. 


EQUIPMENT 


= SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


PATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


ANCESTRIES 
HALFLING HUMAN 


Dwarves are a Elves are a tall, Gnomes are Goblins are a Halflings are a Humans are 

short, stocky slender, long-lived short and hardy short, scrappy, short, adaptable diverse. Some, 

people who are people with a folk, with an energetic people people who such as half-elves 

often stubborn, strong tradition of | unquenchable who have spent exhibit remarkable and half-orcs, even 

fierce, and devoted. art and magic. curiosity and millennia maligned curiosity and have non-human 
eccentric habits. and feared. humor. ancestors. 


ABILITY BOOSTS* 


Constitution, Dexterity, Constitution, Dexterity, Dexterity, Two free ability 
Wisdom, free Intelligence, free Charisma, free Charisma, free Wisdom, free boosts 


ABILITY FLAW* 


Charisma Constitution Strength Wisdom Strength 


CLASSES 
ALCHEMIST BARBARIAN CHAMPION 


The alchemist throws The barbarian flies into Skilled performances and A warrior dedicated to a 
alchemical bombs and arage on the battlefield, secrets of the occult enable deity, the champion uses 
drinks concoctions of their smashing foes with abandon. the bard to distract foes and divine power to enhance their 
own making. inspire allies. abilities and protect allies. 


KEY ABILITY SCORE** 


Intelligence Strength Charisma Strength or Dexterity 


SECONDARY ABILITY SCORES 


Constitution, Dexterity Constitution, Dexterity Constitution, Dexterity Charisma, Constitution 


*Or two free boosts and no flaw (see sidebar on page 26). "A character receives an ability boost to their class's key ability score. 


The cleric calls on the power 
of a deity to cast spells that 
can heal allies or harm foes. 


Wisdom 


Charisma, Constitution 


RANGER 


The ranger is a master of 
using their surroundings, 
traps, and animal allies to 
harry enemies. 


Dexterity or Strength 


Constitution, Wisdom 


CLASSES 


The druid uses the magic of 
the natural world to bolster 
allies and strike down enemies. 


FIGHTER 


The fighter is a master 
of weapons, martial 
techniques, and powerful 
attack combinations. 


KEY ABILITY SCORE** 


Wisdom 


Dexterity or Strength 


SECONDARY ABILITY SCORES 


Constitution, Dexterity 


Constitution 


CLASSES 


The rogue is a multitalented 
master of skulduggery who 
strikes when enemies least 
expect it. 


SORCERER 


The sorcerer's magical might 
flows from their blood and 
manifests as fantastic spells 
and abilities. 


KEY ABILITY SCORE* 


Dexterity or other 


Charisma 


SECONDARY ABILITY SCORES 


Charisma, Constitution 


Dexterity, Constitution 


*A character receives an ability boost to their class's key ability score. 


INTRODUCTION 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


The monk wields the 
secrets of martial arts 
in dazzling displays of 
battlefield prowess. 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 
Dexterity or Strength GAME 
MASTERING 

Constitution, Wisdom 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


K Zs yy 


The wizard is a scholar 
whose reservoirs of arcane a 
knowledge powers their 

wondrous spells and abilities. 


Intelligence 


Dexterity, Constitution } 


99> Three Action Activity 


Maer — © Free Action 
Legendary Bolevel > Reaction 


ABILITY SCORES 


- pu 
DEXTERITY | | 

CONSTITUTION || 

NT INTELLIGENCE | | 
(a — vm 
cHa cuns M 


CLASS DC 


- y DCBASE KEY O] PROF TT E T 


FORTITUDE 


ARMOR CLASS 


CAP) PROF ap M | <i 


STRENGTH E / "qp cu 


SAVING THROWS 
REFLEX 


HIT POINTS 


D 


a = 
E AND LA 


E 


EM g MOVEMENT TYPES & NOTES 


MELEE STRIKES 


[y mmis 


STR ME WSPEC OTHER. TRAITS 


L8 Hee i — ] — 5] 
H: 


== 
e im iR uus 


TRAITS 


RANGED STRIKES 


DEX) PROF 


DICE SPECIAL mip WSPEC 


EET: omm Tus 
| ia d — |] 
WEAPON PROFICIENCIES 


b STEP 2 
START BUILDING 
ABILITY SCORES 


At this point, you need to start building your character’s 
ability scores. See the overview of ability scores on pages 
19-20 for more information about these important 
aspects of your character and an overview of the process. 

Your character’s ability scores each start at 10, and as 
you select your ancestry, background, and class, you'll apply 
ability boosts, which increase a score by 2, and ability flaws, 
which decrease a score by 2. At this point, just note a 10 in 
each ability score and familiarize yourself with the rules for 
ability boosts and flaws on page 20. This is also a good time 
to identify which ability scores will be most important to 
your character. See The Six Ability Scores on page 19 and 
the class summaries on pages 22-23 for more information. 


STEP 3 
SELECT AN ANCESTRY 


Select an ancestry for your character The ancestry 


summaries on page 22 provide an overview of Pathfinder's 
core ancestry options, and each is fully detailed in 
Chapter 2. Ancestry determines your character’s size, 


ATHLETICS NES 
CRAFTING ES 
DECEPTION MEM 
DIPLOMACY MN 


PROF 


SURVIVAL | = 
THIEVERY EB - NE 


LANGUAGES 


Speed, and languages, and contributes to their Hit Points. 
Each also grants ability boosts and ability flaws to represent 
the ancestry’s basic capabilities. 

You'll make four decisions when you select your 

character’s ancestry: 

* Pick the ancestry itself. 

* Assign any free ability boosts and decide if you are 
taking any voluntary flaws. 

* Select a heritage from those available within that 
ancestry, further defining the traits your character 
was born with. 

* Choose an ancestry feat, representing an ability your 
hero learned at an early age. 


Write your characters ancestry and heritage in the 
appropriate space at the top of your character sheet's first 
page. Adjust your ability scores, adding 2 to an ability 
score if you gained an ability boost from your ancestry, and 
subtracting 2 from an ability score if you gained an ability 
flaw from your ancestry. Note the number of Hit Points your 
character gains from their ancestry—you'll add more to this 
number later. Finally, in the appropriate spaces, record your 
characters size, Speed, and languages. If your character's 
ancestry provides them with special abilities, write them 
in the appropriate spaces, such as darkvision in the Senses 


ANCESTRY FEATS AND ABILITIES 


HERITAGE ist 


FEAT 13m 
FEAT 17m 


all all « 

z 

Ey Ey = 
EE 

EX EU E 


SKILL FEATS 
BACKGROUND 


8 


all als 
lil 
3 
5 EN E g g 
alellalelalellz Slalsllalslalsllalals 
HEE GE GE a HEHEHEHEHE 
SISISISISISIS Ale ee eee eee 
allel stelals H E bu B E K e es) E E 
EB EN E E] EJ ES ES EN E EE ES L 4 L 


GENERAL FEATS 


$ E3 > 
| 


© 


INVEST 
(xo) 


section on the first page and innate spells on the fourth 
page. Write the ancestry feat you selected in the Ancestry 
Feat section on your character sheet's second page. 


i STEP 4 
PICK A BACKGROUND 


Your character’s background might represent their 
upbringing, an aptitude they’ve been honing since their 
youth, or another aspect of their life before they became an 
adventurer. Character backgrounds appear in Chapter 2, 
starting on page 60. They typically provide two ability 
boosts (one that can be applied to either of two specific 
ability scores, and one that is free), training in a specific 
skill, training in a Lore skill, and a specific skill feat. 


Record your character's background in the space at the 
top of the first page of your character sheet. Adjust 
your ability scores, adding 2 to an ability score if you 
gained an ability boost from your background. Record 
the skill feat the background provides in the Skill Feat 
section of your character sheet's second page. On the 
first page, check the "T" box next to the name of the 
specific skill and for one Lore skill to indicate your 


INVENTORY 


CLASS FEATS AND ABILITIES 
FEATURE 1: 


FEATURE tira 


FEATURE 13m 


FEATURE 15m 


FEATURE 19m 
FEAT 20% 


BONUS FEATS 


BULK] 


L XJ] IAN 


character is trained, then write the name of the Lore 
skill granted by your background. 


B STEP 5 
CHOOSE A CLASS 


At this point, you need to decide your character’s class. 
A class gives your character access to a suite of heroic 


abilities, determines how effectively they fight, and 
governs how easily they can shake off or avoid certain 
harmful effects. Each class is fully detailed in Chapter 3, 
but the summaries on pages 22-23 provide an overview 
of each and tells you which ability scores are important 
when playing that class. 

You don’t need to write down all of your character’s 
class features yet. You simply need to know which class 
you want to play, which determines the ability scores that 
will be most important for your character. 


T 1EET 
Write your character's class in the space at the top of the 
first page of your character sheet, then write “1” in the 
Level box to indicate that your character is 1st level. Next 
to the ability scores, note the class's key ability score, 
and add 2 to that ability score from the ability boost the 


ALTERNATE 
ANCESTRY BOOSTS 


The ability boosts and flaws 
listed in each ancestry represent 
general trends or help guide 
players to create the kinds of 
characters from that ancestry 
most likely to pursue the life 

of an adventurer. However, 
ancestries aren't a monolith. 

You always have the option to 
replace your ancestry's listed 
ability boosts and ability flaws 
entirely and instead select two 
free ability boosts when creating 
your character. 


OPTIONAL: 
VOLUNTARY FLAWS 


Sometimes, it's fun to play a 
character with a major flaw 
regardless of your ancestry. 

You can elect to take additional 
ability flaws when applying 

the ability boosts and ability 
flaws from your ancestry. This 

is purely for roleplaying a highly 
flawed character, and you should 
consult with the rest of your 
group if you plan to do this! You 
can't apply more than one flaw to 
any single ability score. 


class provides. Don't worry about recording the rest of your character's class features 
and abilities yet-you'll handle that in Step 7. 


| STEP 6 
DETERMINE ABILITY SCORES 


Now that you've made the main mechanical choices about your character, it's time 


to finalize their ability scores. Do these three things: 
* First, make sure you've applied all the ability boosts and ability flaws you've 
noted in previous steps (from your ancestry, background, and class). 
* Then, apply four more ability boosts to your character's ability scores, 


choosing a different ability score for each and increasing that ability score 
by 2. 
* Finally, record your starting ability scores and ability modifiers, as determined 
using Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers. 
Remember that each ability boost adds 2 to the base score of 10, and each ability 
flaw subtracts 2. You should have no ability score lower than 8 or higher than 18. 


Write your character's starting ability scores in the box provided for each. Record 
the ability modifier for each ability score in the box to the left of the ability's name. 


Now, record all the benefits and class features that your character receives from the 
class you've chosen. While you've already noted your key ability score, you'll want to 
be sure to record the following class features. 

* To determine your character's total starting Hit Points, add together the 
number of Hit Points your character gains from their ancestry (chosen in 
Step 2) and the number of Hit Points they gain from their class. 

* The Initial Proficiencies section of your class entry indicates your character's 
starting proficiency ranks in a number of areas. Choose which skills your 
character is trained in and record those, along with the ones set by your class. If 
your class would make you trained in a skill you're already trained in (typically 
due to your background), you can select another skill to become trained in. 

* See the class advancement table in your class entry to learn the class features 
your character gains at 1st level—but remember, you already chose an 
ancestry and background. Some class features require you to make additional 


choices, such as selecting spells. 


Write your character's total Hit Points on the first page of your character sheet. Use 
the proficiency fields (the boxes marked "T," “E,” “M,” and "L") on your character sheet to 
record your character initial proficiencies in Perception, saving throws, and the skills 
granted by their class; mark "T" if your character is trained, or "E" if your character is 
expert. Indicate which additional skills you chose for your character to be trained in 
by marking the "T" proficiency box for each skill you selected. Likewise, record your 
character's armor proficiencies in the Armor Class section at the top of the first page 
and their weapon proficiencies at the bottom of the first page. Record all other class 
feats and abilities on the second page. Don't worry yet about finalizing any values for 
your character's statistics—you'll handle that in Step 9. 


b STEPS 
BUY EQUIPMENT 


At 1st level, your character has 15 gold pieces (150 silver pieces) to spend on 


armor, weapons, and other basic equipment. Your character's class lists the types 
of weapons and armor with which they are trained (or better!). Their weapons 
determine how much damage they deal in combat, and their armor influences their 
Armor Class; these calculations are covered in more detail in Step 10. Don't forget 
essentials such as food and traveling gear! For more on the available equipment and 
how much it costs, see Chapter 6. 


and cp they might still have and write those amounts in Inventory on the second 
page. Record your character's weapons in the Melee Strikes and Ranged Strikes 
sections of the first page, depending on the weapon, and the rest of their equipment 
in the Inventory section on your character sheet's second page. You'll calculate 
specific numbers for melee Strikes and ranged Strikes with the weapons in Step 9 
and for AC when wearing that armor in Step 10. 


b STEP 9 
CALCULATE MODIFIERS 


With most of the big decisions for your character made, it’s time to calculate the 


modifiers for each of the following statistics. If your proficiency rank for a statistic is 
trained, expert, master, and legendary, your bonus equals your character’s level plus 
another number based on the rank (2, 4, 6, and 8, respectively). If your character is 
untrained, your proficiency bonus is +0. 


PERCEPTION 


Your character’s Perception modifier measures how alert they are. This modifier is 
equal to their proficiency bonus in Perception plus their Wisdom modifier. For more 
about Perception, see page 448. 


SAVING THROWS 


For each kind of saving throw, add your character’s Fortitude, Reflex, or Will 
proficiency bonus (as appropriate) plus the ability modifier associated with that 
kind of saving throw. For Fortitude saving throws, use your character’s Constitution 
modifier. For Reflex saving throws, use your character’s Dexterity modifier. For Will 
saving throws, use your character’s Wisdom modifier. Then add in any bonuses or 
penalties from abilities, feats, or items that always apply (but not modifiers, bonuses, 
or penalties that apply only in certain situations). Record this number on the line for 
that saving throw. 


MELEE STRIKES AND RANGED STRIKES 


Next to where you’ve written your character’s melee and ranged weapons, calculate 
the modifier to Strike with each weapon and how much damage that Strike deals. The 
modifier for a Strike is equal to your character’s proficiency bonus with the weapon plus 
an ability modifier (usually Strength for melee Strikes and Dexterity for ranged Strikes). 
You also add any item bonus from the weapon and any other permanent bonuses or 
penalties. You also need to calculate how much damage each weapon’s Strike deals. 
Melee weapons usually add your character’s Strength modifier to damage rolls, while 
ranged weapons might add some or all of your character’s Strength modifier, depending 
on the weapon’s traits. See the weapon entries in Chapter 6 for more information. 


SPELLS AND 
SPELLCASTING 

Most classes can learn to cast a 
few focus spells, but the bard, 
cleric, druid, sorcerer, and wizard 
all gain spellcasting—the ability 
to cast a wide variety of spells. 

If your character's class grants 
spells, you should take time 
during Step 7 to learn about the 
spells they know and how to 
cast them. The fourth page of the 
character sheet provides space 
to note your character's magic 
tradition and their proficiency 
rank for spell attack rolls and 
spell DCs. It also gives ample 
space to record the spells in 
your character's repertoire or 
spellbook, or that you prepare 
frequently. Each class determines 
which spells a character can 
cast, how they are cast, and how 
many they can cast in a day, 

but the spells themselves and 
detailed rules for spellcasting are 
located in Chapter 7. 


- THE AGE OF 
~ LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
GAME 


— 


SKILLS 


In the second box to the right of each skill name on your 
character sheet, there’s an abbreviation that reminds you 
of the ability score tied to that skill. For each skill in which 
your character is trained, add your proficiency bonus for 
that skill (typically +3 for a 1st-level character) to the 
indicated ability’s modifier, as well as any other applicable 
bonuses and penalties, to determine the total modifier for 
that skill. For skills your character is untrained in, use the 
same method, but your proficiency bonus is +0. 


bonus and the appropriate ability modifier in the boxes 
provided, then record the total modifier in the large space. 
Record the proficiency bonuses, ability modifiers, and total 
modifiers for your melee Strikes and ranged Strikes in the 
box after the name of each weapon, and put the damage 
for each in the space below, along with the traits for that 
attack. For skills, record the relevant ability modifier and 
proficiency bonus in the appropriate box for each skill, and 
then write the total skill modifiers in the spaces to the left. 
If your character has any modifiers, bonuses, or 
penalties from feats or abilities that always apply, add 
them into the total modifiers. For ones that apply only in 
certain situations, note them next to the total modifiers. 


ER M 


FINISHING DETAILS 


Now add the following details to your character sheet in 
the appropriate spaces. 


ALIGNMENT 


Your character's alignment is an indicator of their 
morality and personality. There are nine possible 
alignments in Pathfinder, as shown on Table 1-2: The 
Nine Alignments. If your alignment has any components 
other than neutral, your character gains the traits of those 
alignment components. This might affect the way various 
spells, items, and creatures interact with your character. 

Your character's alignment is measured by two pairs of 
opposed values: the axis of good and evil and the axis of 
law and chaos. A character who isn't committed strongly 
to either side is neutral on that axis. Keep in mind that 
alignment is a complicated subject, and even acts that might 
be considered good can be used for nefarious purposes, and 
vice versa. The GM is the arbiter of questions about how 
specific actions might affect your character's alignment. 

If you play a champion, your character's alignment 
must be one allowed for their deity and cause 
(pages 437-440 and 106-107), and if you play a cleric, 


your character's alignment must be one allowed for their 
deity (pages 437-440). 


Goon ano Evi. 

Your character has a good alignment if they consider the 
happiness of others above their own and work selflessly to 
assist others, even those who aren't friends and family. They 
are also good if they value protecting others from harm, 
even if doing so puts the character in danger. Your character 
has an evil alignment if they're willing to victimize others 
for their own selfish gain, and even more so if they enjoy 
inflicting harm. If your character falls somewhere in the 
middle, they're likely neutral on this axis. 


Law ano Graos 
Your character has a lawful alignment if they value 
consistency, stability, and predictability over flexibility. 
Lawful characters have a set system in life, whether it’s 
meticulously planning day-to-day activities, carefully 
following a set of official or unofficial laws, or strictly 
adhering to a code of honor. On the other hand, if your 
character values flexibility, creativity, and spontaneity over 
consistency, they have a chaotic alignment—though this 
doesn’t mean they make decisions by choosing randomly. 
Chaotic characters believe that lawful characters are too 
inflexible to judge each situation by its own merits or take 
advantage of opportunities, while lawful characters believe 
that chaotic characters are irresponsible and flighty. 
Many characters are in the middle, obeying the law 
or following a code of conduct in many situations, but 
bending the rules when the situation requires it. If your 
character is in the middle, they are neutral on this axis. 


CHANGING ALIGNMENT 

Alignment can change during play as a character’s beliefs 
change, or as you realize that your character’s actions 
reflect a different alignment than the one on your character 
sheet. In most cases, you can just change their alignment 
and continue playing. However, if you play a cleric or 
champion and your character’s alignment changes to one 
not allowed for their deity (or cause, for champions), your 
character loses some of their class abilities until they atone 
(as described in the class). 


DEITY 


Write down the deity your character worships, if any. 
Champions and clerics must worship a deity. See pages 
437-440 for more about Pathfinder’s deities. 


AGE 


Decide your character’s age and note it on the third page 
of the character sheet. The description for your character’s 
ancestry in Chapter 2 gives some guidance on the age 
ranges of members of that ancestry. Beyond that, you can 
play a character of whatever age you like. There aren’t 
any mechanical adjustments to your character for being 
particularly old, but you might want to take it into account 
when considering your starting ability scores and future 
advancement. Particularly young characters can change 


Good Neutral 


Lawful 
Evil 
(LE) 


Lawful 
Neutral 
(LN) 


Lawful 
Good 
(LG) 


Neutral True Neutral 
Neutral Good Neutral Evil 
(NG) (N) (NE) 


Chaotic Chaotic Chaotic 
Chaotic Good Neutral Evil 
(CG) (CN) (CE) 


the tone of some of the game’s threats, so it’s recommended 
that characters are at least young adults. 


GENDER AND PRONOUNS 


Characters of all genders are equally likely to become 
adventurers. Record your character’s gender, if applicable, 
and their pronouns on the third page of the character sheet. 


CLASS DC 


A class DC sets the difficulty for certain abilities granted 
by your character’s class. This DC equals 10 plus their 
proficiency bonus for their class DC (+3 for most 1st-level 
characters) plus the modifier for the class’s key ability score. 


HERO POINTS 


Your character usually begins each game session with 
1 Hero Point, and you can gain additional Hero Points 
during sessions by performing heroic deeds or devising 
clever strategies. Your character can use Hero Points to 
gain certain benefits, such as staving off death or rerolling 
a d20. See page 467 for more about Hero Points. 


ARMOR CLASS [AC] 


Your character’s Armor Class represents how difficult they 
are to hit in combat. To calculate your AC, add 10 plus 
your character’s Dexterity modifier (up to their armor’s 
Dexterity modifier cap; page 274), plus their proficiency 
bonus with their armor, plus their armor’s item bonus to 
AC and any other permanent bonuses and penalties. 


BULK 


Your character’s maximum Bulk determines how much 
weight they can comfortably carry. If they’re carrying a total 
amount of Bulk that exceeds 5 plus their Strength modifier, 
they are encumbered. A character can’t carry a total amount 
of Bulk that exceeds 10 plus their Strength modifier. The 
Bulk your character is carrying equals the sum of all of their 
items; keep in mind that 10 light items make up 1 Bulk. You 
can find out more about Bulk in Chapter 6: Equipment. 


| INTRODUCTION - 


- EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 


| THE ABE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


| B F 
| & TREASURE 


SAMPLE CHARACTER 


This step-by-step example illustrates the process of 
creating a Pathfinder character. 


STEPS | AND 2 

Adam is making his first Pathfinder character. After 
talking about it with the rest of the group, he’s decided to 
make a dwarven druid. After jotting down a few ideas, he 
begins by writing down a 10 for each ability score. 


STEP 3 


Adam looks up the dwarf entry in Chapter 2. He records 
the ability boosts to his Constitution and Wisdom scores 
(bringing both up to 12). He also applies the ability flaw 
to his Charisma, dropping it to 8. For his free ability 
boost, he chooses Dexterity to boost his defenses, raising 
it to 12 as well. He also records the 10 Hit Points the 
ancestry gives him. Next, he returns to his character 
sheet to record the size, Speed, language, and darkvision 
ability he gets from being a dwarf. Finally, he decides on 
a heritage, writing “rock dwarf” next to dwarf, and he 
picks an ancestry feat, deciding on Rock Runner, to show 
his character’s strong connection to stone. 


STEP 4 


Looking through the backgrounds, Adam likes the idea 
of a solitary dwarven druid, and the nomad background 
makes for a good choice. For the first ability boost 
granted by the background, Adam chooses Wisdom, and 
for the free ability boost, he choses Constitution, taking 
both up to 14. On the second page, he writes “Assurance 
(Survival)” in the Skill Feats area, on the Background line. 
Finally, returning to the first page, he writes “cave” next 
to the first Lore skill entry and checks the box under the 
“T” for that skill and Survival. 


STEP 5 


Adam writes “druid” on the class line of his character sheet 
and fills in the number 1 in the level box. The druid class 
grants an ability boost to its key ability score, which is 
Wisdom, so Adam’s character has his Wisdom raised to 16. 


STEP 6 


Adam applies four more ability boosts to his ability 
scores to determine his starting scores. After giving it 
some thought, he applies them to Wisdom (raising it 
to 18), since that’s the most important ability score for 
his class, and to Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution 
(raising them to 12, 14, and 16, respectively) to make him 
better in combat. He then looks at Table 1-1 to determine 
the ability modifiers for each score and writes all of his 
ability scores and modifiers down on his character sheet. 


STEP 7 


As Adam applies his class, he has a number of things to 
figure out. First, he starts by recording all of his initial 


proficiencies, marking the appropriate boxes in the 
Armor Class, Saving Throws, Weapon Proficiencies, Spell 
Attack Roll, and Spell DCs areas of his sheet. Turning to 
skills, he marks Nature as trained and notes that once 
he picks his druid order, he’ll become trained in another 
skill determined by that order. He then gets to choose 
two more skills (if he had a higher Intelligence, he would 
have gotten more). He decides on Athletics and Medicine, 
marking both of them as trained. Next, he adds the 8 Hit 
Points from the druid class and his Constitution modifier 
of +3 to the 10 Hit Points from his dwarf ancestry for an 
impressive 21 total Hit Points. 

Moving on to class features, Adam marks down wild 
empathy in the class feats and abilities area, as well as the 
Shield Block feat in the bonus feats area. He makes note of 
the anathema for being a druid and records Druidic in his 
language section. Next, he looks through the druid orders 
and decides upon the wild order, which gives him his final 
trained skill (Intimidation), the ability to cast wild morph, 
as well as the Wild Shape feat, which lets him cast a spell 
to turn into an animal. He writes these spells in the focus 
spell area of his character sheet and also notes that he has 
1 Focus Point to use to cast these spells. 

Finally, a druid can cast a limited number of primal 
spells. Although he can change them every morning, Adam 
is curious, and he turns to Chapter 7: Spells to decide 
what spells he might cast. He jots down five cantrips and 
two 1st-level spells and marks them as prepared. 


STEP 8 


Next up, Adam turns to Chapter 6: Equipment. He’s 
trained in medium armor, but since wearing metal armor is 
anathema to druids, he chooses hide armor. For weapons, 
he decides on a spear, but he buys two just in case he wants 
to throw the first one. He writes all of these on the front of 
his character sheet. Adam lists the spear under both melee 
Strikes and ranged Strikes, and he also writes the claws he 
gains from wild morph under his melee Strikes, because 
he's sure that he'll be casting that spell a lot. He records the 
rest of his gear in the Inventory section on the second page, 
along with coin left over after buying his starting gear. 


STEP 9 


Adam records all of the ability modifiers for Perception, 
saving throws, Strikes, and skills. He then puts a “+3” in 
the box marked Prof to indicate his proficiency bonus 
for each statistic he’s trained in (1 for his level, plus 2 for 
being trained) and “+5” in any that he is an expert. Then, 
he adds up his modifiers for each statistic. 


STEP 10 


Finally, Adam fills out the final details of his character, 
noting his neutral alignment and calculating his AC and 
Bulk limits. Last but not least, he fills in some last-minute 
information about his character and decides on a name. 
Gar the dwarf druid is ready for his first adventure! 


LEVELING UP 

The world of Pathfinder is a dangerous place, and your 
character will face terrifying beasts and deadly traps on 
their journey into legend. With each challenge resolved, 
a character earns Experience Points (XP) that allow 
them to increase in level. Each level grants greater skill, 
increased resiliency, and new capabilities, allowing your 
character to face even greater challenges and go on to 
earn even more impressive rewards. 

Each time your character reaches 1,000 Experience 
Points, their level increases by 1. On your character 
sheet, indicate your character’s new level beside the 
name of their class, and deduct 1,000 XP from their XP 
total. If you have any Experience Points left after this, 
record them—they count toward your next level, so your 
character is already on their way to advancing yet again! 

Next, return to your character’s class entry. Increase 
your character’s total Hit Points by the number indicated 
for your class. Then, take a look at the class advancement 
table and find the row for your character’s new level. 
Your character gains all the abilities listed for that 
level, including new abilities specific to your class and 
additional benefits all characters gain as they level up. 
For example, all characters gain four ability boosts at 5th 
level and every 5 levels thereafter. 

You can find all the new abilities specific to your class, 
including class feats, right in your class entry, though you 
can also use class feats to take an archetype (page 219). 
Your character's class entry also explains how to apply 
any ability boosts and skill increases your character gains. 
If they gain an ancestry feat, head back to the entry for 
your character's ancestry in Chapter 2 and select another 
ancestry feat from the list of options. If they gain a skill 
increase, refer to Chapter 4 when deciding which skill 
to apply it to. If they gain a general feat or a skill feat, 
you can choose from the feats listed in Chapter 5. If they 
can cast spells, see the class entry for details on adding 
spell slots and spells. It’s also a good idea to review 
your character's spells in Chapter 7 and see if there are 
heightened versions they can now cast. 

Once you've made all your choices for your 
character's new level, be sure to go over your character 
sheet and adjust any values that have changed. At a bare 
minimum, your proficiency bonuses all increase by 1 
because you've gained a level, so your AC, attack rolls, 
Perception, saving throws, skill modifiers, spell attack 
rolls, and class DC all increase by at least 1. You might 
need to change other values because of skill increases, 
ability boosts, or class features that either increase your 
proficiency rank or increase other statistics at certain 
levels. If an ability boost increases your character's 
Constitution modifier, recalculate their maximum Hit 
Points using their new Constitution modifier (typically 
this adds 1 Hit Point per level). If an ability boost 
increases your character's Intelligence modifier, they 
become trained in an additional skill and language. 


Some feats grant a benefit based on your level, such 
as Toughness, and these benefits are adjusted whenever 
you gain a level as well. 

You can perform the steps in the leveling-up process in 
whichever order you want. For example, if you wanted 
to take the skill feat Intimidating Prowess as your skill 
feat at 10th level, but your character's Strength score 
was only 14, you could first increase their Strength score 
to 16 using the ability boosts gained at 10th level, and 
then take Intimidating Prowess as a skill feat at the 
same level. 


LEVELING-UP CHECKLIST 


Every time you gain a level, make sure you do each of 
the following: 
* Increase your level by 1 and subtract 1,000 XP 
from your XP total. 
* Increase your maximum Hit Points by the amount 
listed in your class entry in Chapter 3. 
* Add class features from your class advancement 
table, including ability boosts and skill increases. 
* Select feats as indicated on your class advancement 
table. For ancestry feats, see Chapter 2. For class 
feats, see your class entry in Chapter 3. For general 
feats and skill feats, see Chapter 5. 
* Add spells and spell slots if your class grants 
spellcasting. See Chapter 7 for spells. 
* Increase all of your proficiency bonuses by 1 
from your new level, and make other increases to 
your proficiency bonuses as necessary from skill 


increases or other class features. Increase any 
other statistics that changed as a result of ability 
boosts or other abilities. 

* Adjust bonuses from feats and other abilities that 
are based on your level. 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
2 GAME 


CHAPTER 2: ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS 


Your character’s ancestry determines which people they call their own, whether it’s diverse 
and ambitious humans, insular but vivacious elves, traditionalist and family-focused 
dwarves, or any of the other folk who call Golarion home. A character’s ancestry and their 
experiences prior to their life as an adventurer—represented by a background—might be 
key parts of their identity, shape how they see the world, and help them find their place in it. 


——————————— RN ICC 


A character has one ancestry and one background, both 
of which you select during character creation. You'll also 
select a number of languages for your character. Once 
chosen, your ancestry and background can't be changed. 

This chapter is divided into three parts: 

* Ancestries express the culture your character hails 
from. Within many ancestries are heritages— 
subgroups that each have their own characteristics. 
An ancestry provides ability boosts (and perhaps 
ability flaws), Hit Points, ancestry feats, and 
sometimes additional abilities. 

* Backgrounds, starting on page 60, describe training 
or environments your character experienced 
before becoming an adventurer. Your character's 
background provides ability boosts, skill training, 
and a skill feat. 

* Languages, starting on page 65, let your character 
communicate with the wonderful and weird 
people and creatures of the world. 


ANCESTRY ENTRIES 

Each entry includes details about the ancestry and 
presents the rules elements described below (all of these 
but heritages and ancestry feats are listed in a sidebar). 


HIT POINTS 

This tells you how many Hit Points your character gains 
from their ancestry at 1st level. You'll add the Hit Points 
from your character's class (including their Constitution 
modifier) to this number. For more on calculating Hit 
Points, see Step 7: Record Class Details, on page 25. 


SIZE 

This tells you the physical size of members of the ancestry. 
Medium corresponds roughly to the height and weight 
range of a human adult, and Small is roughly half that. 


SPEED 


This entry lists how far a member of the ancestry can move 
each time they spend an action (such as Stride) to do so. 


ABILITY BOOSTS 

This lists the ability scores you apply ability boosts to 
when creating a character of this ancestry. Most ancestries 
provide ability boosts to two specified ability scores, plus 


a free ability boost that you can apply to any other score 
of your choice. For more about ability boosts, see page 20. 


ABILITY FLAW 


This lists the ability score to which you apply an ability 
flaw when creating a character of this ancestry. Most 
ancestries, with the exception of humans, include an ability 
flaw. For more about applying ability flaws, see page 20. 


LANGUAGES 


This tells you the languages that members of the ancestry 
speak at 1st level. If your Intelligence modifier is +1 or 
higher, you can select more languages from a list given 
here. More about languages can be found on page 65. 


TRAITS 


These descriptors have no mechanical benefit, but they’re 
important for determining how certain spells, effects, and 
other aspects of the game interact with your character. 


SPECIAL ABILITIES 


Any other entries in the sidebar represent abilities, senses, 
and other qualities all members of the ancestry manifest. 
These are omitted for ancestries with no special rules. 


HERITAGES 


You select a heritage at 1st level to reflect abilities passed 
down to you from your ancestors or common among 
those of your ancestry in the environment where you were 
born or grew up. You have only one heritage and can’t 
change it later. A heritage is not the same as a culture or 
ethnicity, though some cultures or ethnicities might have 
more or fewer members from a particular heritage. 


ANCESTRY FEATS 


This section presents ancestry feats, which allow you to 
customize your character. You gain your first ancestry 
feat at 1st level, and you gain another at Sth level, 9th 
level, 13th level, and 17th level, as indicated in the class 
advancement table in the descriptions of each class. 

Ancestry feats are organized by level. As a starting 
character, you can choose from only 1st-level ancestry 
feats, but later choices can be made from any feat of 
your level or lower. These feats also sometimes list 
prerequisites—requirements that your character must 
fulfill to select that feat. 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


"DATHFINDER) Cone RULEBOOK | 


DWARF 


Dwarves have a well-earned reputation as a stoic and stern people, ensconced within citadels 


and cities carved from solid rock. While some see them as dour and humorless crafters of 


stone and metal, dwarves and those who have spent time among them understand their 
unbridled zeal for their work, caring far more about quality than quantity. To a stranger, 


they can seem untrusting and clannish, but to their friends and family, they are warm and 


caring, their halls filled with the sounds of laughter and hammers hitting anvils. 


o o 


Dwarves are slow to trust those outside their kin, but 
this wariness is not without reason. Dwarves have a long 
history of forced exile from ancestral holds and struggles 
against the depredations of savage foes, especially giants, 
goblinoids, orcs, and the horrors that dwell deep below 
the surface. While trust from a dwarf is hard-won, once 
gained it is as strong as iron. 


If you want to play a character who is as hard as nails, 
a stubborn and unrelenting adventurer, with a mix of 
rugged toughness and deep wisdom—or at least dogged 
conviction—you should play a dwarf. 


YOU MIGHT... 


Strive to uphold your personal honor, no matter 
the situation. 

* Appreciate quality craftsmanship in all forms and 
insist upon it for all your gear. 

* Refuse to waver or back down once you've set 
your mind to something. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* See you as stubborn, though whether they see 
this as an asset or a detriment changes from one 
person to the next. 

* Assume you are an expert in matters related to 
stonework, mining, precious metals, and gems. 

* Recognize the deep connection you have with your 
family, heritage, and friends. 


PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION 


Dwarves are short and stocky, standing about a foot 
shorter than most humans. They have wide, compact 
bodies and burly frames. Dwarves of all genders pride 
themselves on the length of their hair, which they often 
braid into intricate patterns, some of which represent 
specific clans. A long beard is a sign of masculinity and 
honor among the dwarves, and thus a clean-shaven male 
dwarf is considered weak, untrustworthy, or worse. 

Dwarves typically reach physical adulthood around the 
age of 25, though their traditionalist culture places more 
value on completing coming of age ceremonies unique to 
each clan than reaching a certain age. A typical dwarf can 
live to around 350 years old. 


SOCIETY 


The ancient surface empire the dwarves once ruled fell 
long ago, overwhelmed by orc and goblinoid enemies. 
Today’s dwarves retain many of the qualities that 
propelled their people to greatness in ancient times: 
fierceness, gumption, and stubbornness in endeavors 
ranging from battle and craftsmanship to forging ties 
with family and friends. 


While the distance between their mountain Sky Citadels can create vast cultural 
divides between various dwarf clans, most dwarven societies share a number of 
similarities. Nearly all dwarven peoples share a passion for stonework, metalwork, 
and gem-cutting. Most are highly skilled at architecture and mining, and many share 
a hatred of giants, orcs, and goblinoids. 

Few dwarves are seen without their clan dagger strapped to their belt. This dagger 
is forged just before a dwarf’s birth and bears the gemstone of their clan. A parent 
uses this dagger to cut the infant’s umbilical cord, making it the first weapon to taste 


their blood. 


ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION 


Dwarves tend to value honor and closely follow the traditions of their clans and 
kingdoms. They have a strong sense of friendship and justice, though they are often 
very particular about who they consider a friend. They work hard and play harder— 
especially when strong ale is involved. 

The typical dwarf is lawful good or lawful neutral and prefers to worship deities of 
those alignments. Torag, god of dwarvenkind, is the dwarves’ primary deity, though 
worship of Torag’s family members is also common. 


NAMES 


Dwarves honor their children with names taken from ancestors or dwarven heroes, 
and it’s quite rare to invent a new name or to borrow a name from another culture 
for a child. When introducing themselves, dwarves tend to list their family and clan, 
plus any number of other familial connections and honorifics. Dwarven names 
usually contain hard consonants and are rarely more or fewer than two syllables. 


SAMPLE NAMES 
Agna, Bodill, Dolgrin, Edrukk, Grunyar, Ingra, Kazmuk, Kotri, Lupp, Morgrym, 
Rogar, Rusilka, Torra, Yangrit 


DWARF HERITAGES 

With their long family lines and hardy physiologies, dwarves take great pride in the 
resilience their bloodlines provide. Choose one of the following dwarven heritages 
at 1st level. 


ANCIENT-BLOODED DWARF 


Dwarven heroes of old could shrug off their enemies’ magic, and some of that 
resistance manifests in you. You gain the Call on Ancient Blood reaction. 


CALL ON ANCIENT BLOOD 2 


Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a magical effect, but you haven't rolled yet. 
Your ancestors’ innate resistance to magic surges, before slowly ebbing down. You gain a +1 
circumstance bonus until the end of this turn. This bonus also applies to the triggering save. 


DEATH WARDEN DWARF 


Your ancestors have been tomb guardians for generations, and the power they 


cultivated to ward off necromancy has passed on to you. If you roll a success on a 
saving throw against a necromancy effect, you get a critical success instead. 


FORGE DWARF 


You have a remarkable adaptation to hot environments from ancestors who inhabited 
blazing deserts or volcanic chambers beneath the earth. This grants you fire resistance 
equal to half your level (minimum 1), and you treat environmental heat effects as 
if they were one step less extreme (incredible heat becomes extreme, extreme heat 
becomes severe, and so on). 


Hit Points 
10 


Size 
Medium 


Speed 
20 feet 


Ability Boosts 
Constitution 
Wisdom 

Free 


Ability Flaw 
Charisma 


Languages 

Common 

Dwarven 

Additional languages equal to 
your Intelligence modifier (if it’s 
positive). Choose from Gnomish, 
Goblin, Jotun, Orcish, Terran, 
Undercommon, and any other 
languages to which you have 
access (such as the languages 
prevalent in your region). 


Traits 
Dwarf 
Humanoid 


Darkvision 

You can see in darkness and 
dim light just as well as you can 
see in bright light, though your 
vision in darkness is in black 
and white. 


Clan Dagger 

You get one clan dagger (page 
280) for free, as it was given 
to you at birth. Selling this 
clan dagger is a terrible taboo 
and earns you the disdain of 
other dwarves. 


—ÓÀ 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


S. 
EQUIPMENT 

E 

SPELLS 

tt 


ie 
M 
THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
GAME 


1l 


ROCK DWARF 


Your ancestors lived and worked among the great ancient 
stones of the mountains or the depths of the earth. This 
makes you solid as a rock when you plant your feet. You 
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your Fortitude or Reflex 
DC against attempts to Shove or Trip you. This bonus 
also applies to saving throws against spells or effects that 
attempt to knock you prone. 

In addition, if any effect would force you to move 10 
feet or more, you are moved only half the distance. 


STRONG-BLOODED DWARF 


Your blood runs hearty and strong, and you can shake 
off toxins. You gain poison resistance equal to half your 
level (minimum 1), and each of your successful saving 
throws against a poison affliction reduces its stage by 2, 
or by 1 for a virulent poison. Each critical success against 
an ongoing poison reduces its stage by 3, or by 2 for a 
virulent poison. 


ANCESTRY FEATS 


At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an 
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a dwarf, you select from 
among the following ancestry feats. 


IST LEVEL 


DWARVEN LORE FEAT1 
You eagerly absorbed the old stories and traditions of your 
ancestors, your gods, and your people, studying in subjects 
and techniques passed down for generation upon generation. 
You gain the trained proficiency rank in Crafting and 
Religion. If you would automatically become trained in one 
of those skills (from your background or class, for example), 
you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also 
become trained in Dwarven Lore. 


DWARVEN WEAPON FAMILIARITY 
| owanr | 

Your kin have instilled in you an affinity for hard-hitting 
weapons, and you prefer these to more elegant arms. You are 
trained with the battle axe, pick, and warhammer. 

You also gain access to all uncommon dwarf weapons. For 
the purpose of determining your proficiency, martial dwarf 
weapons are simple weapons and advanced dwarf weapons 
are martial weapons. 


ROCK RUNNER 


Your innate connection to stone makes you adept at moving 
across uneven surfaces. You can ignore difficult terrain caused 


by rubble and uneven ground made of stone and earth. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


In addition, when you use the Acrobatics skill to Balance on 
narrow surfaces or uneven ground made of stone or earth, you 
arent flat-footed, and when you roll a success at one of these 
Acrobatics checks, you get a critical success instead. 


STONECUNNING 
| owanr | 

You have a knack for noticing even small inconsistencies and 
craftsmanship techniques in the stonework around you. You 
gain a *2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks to notice 
unusual stonework. This bonus applies to checks to discover 
mechanical traps made of stone or hidden within stone. 

If you aren't using the Seek action or searching, the GM 
automatically rolls a secret check for you to notice unusual 
stonework anyway. This check doesn't gain the circumstance 
bonus, and it takes a -2 circumstance penalty. 


FEAT 1 


UNBURDENED IRON 
| owanr | 

You've learned techniques first devised by your ancestors 
during their ancient wars, allowing you to comfortably wear 
massive suits of armor. Ignore the reduction to your Speed 
from any armor you wear. 

In addition, any time you're taking a penalty to your Speed 
from some other reason (such as from the encumbered 
condition or from a spell), deduct 5 feet from the penalty. 
For example, the encumbered condition normally gives a 
-10-foot penalty to Speed, but it gives you only a -5-foot 
penalty. If your Speed is taking multiple penalties, pick only 
one penalty to reduce. 


FEAT 1 


VENGEFUL HATRED 
ru 
You heart aches for vengeance against those who have 
wronged your people. Choose one of the following dwarven 
ancestral foes when you gain Vengeful Hatred: drow, duergar, 
giant, or orc. You gain a *1 circumstance bonus to damage 
with weapons and unarmed attacks against creatures with 
that trait. If your attack would deal more than one weapon die 
of damage (as is common at higher levels than 1st), the bonus 
is equal to the number of weapon dice or unarmed attack dice. 

In addition, if a creature critically succeeds at an attack 
against you and deals damage to you, you gain your bonus 
to damage against that creature for 1 minute regardless of 
whether it has the chosen trait. 

Special Your GM can add appropriate creature traits to the 
ancestral foes list if your character is from a community that 
commonly fights other types of enemies. 


STH LEVEL 


BOULDER ROLL 9$ FEATS 
| wan: f 

Prerequisites Rock Runner 

Your dwarven build allows you to push foes around, just like 


FEAT 1 


ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS 


a mighty boulder tumbles through a subterranean cavern. Take a Step into the square of | DWARVEN INTRODUCTION 
a foe that is your size or smaller, and the foe must move into the empty space directly | ADVENTURERS 
behind it. The foe must move even if doing so places it in harm's way. The foe can attempt Dwarven adventurers tend to 


a Fortitude saving throw against your Athletics DC to block your Step. If the foe attempts work as treasure hunters or ANCESTRIES & 
this saving throw, unless it critically succeeds, it takes bludgeoning damage equal to your sellswords. They often leave their BACKGROUNDS 
level plus your Strength modifier. citadels and subterranean cities 
If the foe can't move into an empty space (if it is surrounded by solid objects or other in search of wealth to enrich their CLASSES 
creatures, for example), your Boulder Roll has no effect. homeland or to reclaim long-lost 
dwarven treasures or lands taken SKILLS 
DWARVEN WEAPON CUNNING FEAT 5 by the enemies of their kin. 
| DWARF | Typical dwarven backgrounds FEATS 
Prerequisites Dwarven Weapon Familiarity include acolyte, artisan, merchant, 
You've learned cunning techniques to get the best effects out of your dwarven weapons. miner, and warrior. Dwarves excel EQUIPMENT 
Whenever you critically hit using a battle axe, pick, warhammer, or a dwarf weapon, you at many of the martial classes, 
apply the weapons critical specialization effect. such as barbarian, fighter, monk, SPELLS 
and ranger, but they also make 


STH LEVEL excellent clerics and druids. THE AGE OF 


LOST OMENS 


MOUNTAIN’S STOUTNESS FEAT 9 "a 
| DWARF | 1 PLAYING THE 
Your hardiness lets you withstand more punishment than most before going down. Increase BAME 
your maximum Hit Points by your level. When you have the dying condition, the DC of 
your recovery checks is equal to 9 * your dying value (instead of 10 * your dying value). DAME 

If you also have the Toughness feat, the Hit Points gained from it and this feat MASTERING 
are cumulative, and the DC of your recovery checks : : 
is equal to 6 * your dying value. - . m : U- < a CRAFTING 


& TREASURE 


i $ XI 
i i, 


c 


STONEWALKER FEAT 9 

E a deep reverence for and connection 

to stone. You gain meld into stone as a 3rd-level 
divine innate spell that you can cast once 
per day. 

If you have the Stonecunning dwarf ancestry 
feat, you can attempt to find unusual stonework and 
stonework traps that require legendary proficiency 
in Perception. If you have both Stonecunning and 
legendary proficiency in Perception, when 
you're not Seeking and the GM rolls a secret 
check for you to notice unusual stonework, 
you keep the bonus from Stonecunning and 
dont take the -2 circumstance penalty. 


13TH LEVEL 


DWARVEN WEAPON EXPERTISE 
€ Dwarven Weapon Familiarity 

Your dwarven affinity blends with your training, 

granting you great skill with dwarven weapons. 

Whenever you gain a class feature that grants you 
expert or greater proficiency in certain weapons, you also 
gain that proficiency for battle axes, picks, warhammers, 

and all dwarven weapons in which you are trained. 


FEAT 13 


ELF 


As an ancient people, elves have seen great change and have the perspective that can 
come only from watching the arc of history. After leaving the world in ancient times, they 
returned to a changed land, and they still struggle to reclaim their ancestral homes, most 
notably from terrible demons that have invaded parts of their lands. To some, the elves 
are objects of awe—graceful and beautiful, with immense talent and knowledge. Among 
themselves, however, the elves place far more importance on personal freedom than on 
living up to these ideals. 


Elves combine otherworldly grace, sharp intellect, tone, hair, or mannerisms that reflect the 
and mysterious charm in a way that is practically Em environment in which you live. 


$4 OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Focus on your appearance, either 


magnetic to members of other ancestries. They 
are often voraciously intellectual, though their 
studies delve into a level of detail 
that most shorter-lived peoples 
find excessive or inefficient. 
Valuing kindness and beauty, 
elves ever strive to improve 


admiring your grace or treating you as 


i - 

Ww Wa if you’re physically fragile. 

`W * Assume you practice archery, 
; cast spells, fight demons, and have 
their manners, appearance, perfected one or more fine arts. 
and culture. 


Elves are often rather 


private people, steeped in 
the secrets of their groves and 

kinship groups. They’re slow to 
build friendships outside their 
kinsfolk, but for a specific reason: 

they subtly and deeply attune 
to their environment and their 
companions. Theres a physical 
element to this attunement, but 
it isn’t only superficial. Elves * Worry that you privately look 
who spend their lives among 
shorter-lived peoples often develop 
a skewed perception of their own 
mortality and tend to become 
morose after watching generation 


down on them, or feel like you’re 
condescending and aloof. 


PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION 


While generally taller than humans, elves 
possess a fragile grace, accentuated by 
long features and sharply pointed ears. 


after generation of companions 
age and die. These elves are called 
the Forlorn. 

If you want a character who is 
magical, mystical, and mysterious, 


Their eyes are wide and almond-shaped, 
featuring large and vibrant-colored 
pupils that make up the entire visible 


you should play an elf. portion of the eye. These pupils give 
them an alien look and allow them to see 
YOU MIGHT... sharply even in very little light. 


e Carefully curate your Elves gradually adapt to their 
relationships with people 


with shorter lifespans, either 


environment and their companions, 
and they often take on physical traits 
keeping a careful emotional reflecting their surroundings. An elf who 
distance or resigning yourself has dwelled in primeval forests for centuries, 

to outliving them. 
* Adopt specialized or obscure interests 


simply for the sake of mastering them. 


for example, might exhibit verdant hair and 
gnarled fingers, while one who’s lived in a 
desert might have golden pupils and skin. 


* Have features such as eye color, skin Elven fashion, like the elves themselves, tends 


to reflect their surroundings. Elves living in the forests and other wilderness locales 
wear clothing that plays off the terrain and flora of their homes, while those who live 
in cities tend to wear the latest fashions. 

Elves reach physical adulthood around the age of 20, though they aren’t 
considered to be fully emotionally mature by other elves until closer to the passing 
of their first century, once they’ve experienced more, held several occupations, and 
outlived a generation of shorter-lived people. A typical elf can live to around 600 
years old. 


SOCIETY 


Elven culture is deep, rich, and on the decline. Their society peaked millennia ago, 
long before they fled the world to escape a great calamity. They’ve since returned, 
but rebuilding is no easy task. Their inborn patience and intellectual curiosity make 
elves excellent sages, philosophers, and wizards, and their societies are built upon 
their inherent sense of wonder and knowledge. Elven architecture displays their deep 
appreciation of beauty, and elven cities are wondrous works of art. 

Elves hold deeply seated ideals of individualism, allowing each elf to explore 
multiple occupations before alighting on a particular pursuit or passion that suits 
her best. Elves bear notorious grudges against rivals, which the elves call i/duliel, but 
these antagonistic relationships can sometimes blossom into friendships over time. 


ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION 


Elves are often emotional and capricious, yet they hold high ideals close to their 
hearts. As such, many are chaotic good. They prefer deities who share their love of 
all things mystic and artistic. Desna and Shelyn are particular favorites, the former 
for her sense of wonder and the latter for her appreciation of artistry. Calistria is the 
most notorious of elven deities, as she represents many of the elven ideals taken to 
the extreme. 


NAMES 


An elf keeps their personal name secret among their family, while giving a nickname 
when meeting other people. This nickname can change over time, due to events in 
the elf’s life or even on a whim. A single elf might be known by many names by 
associates of different ages and regions. Elven names consist of multiple syllables and 
are meant to flow lyrically—at least in the Elven tongue. They so commonly end in 
“-el” or “-ara” that other cultures sometimes avoid names ending in these syllables 
to avoid sounding too elven. 


SAMPLE NAMES 
Aerel, Amrunelara, Caladrel, Dardlara, Faunra, Heldalel, Jathal, Lanliss, Oparal, 
Seldlon, Soumral, Talathel, Tessara, Variel, Yalandlara, Zordlon 


ELF HERITAGES 


Elves live long lives and adapt to their environment after dwelling there for a long 
time. Choose one of the following elven heritages at 1st level. 


ARCTIC ELF 


You dwell deep in the frozen north and have gained incredible resilience against cold 
environments, granting you cold resistance equal to half your level (minimum 1). You 
treat environmental cold effects as if they were one step less extreme (incredible cold 
becomes extreme, extreme cold becomes severe, and so on). 


CAVERN ELF 


You were born or spent many years in underground tunnels or caverns where light 
is scarce. You gain darkvision. 


Hit Points 
6 


Size 
Medium 


Speed 
30 feet 


Ability Boosts 
Dexterity 
Intelligence 
Free 


Ability Flaw 
Constitution 


Languages 

Common 

Elven 

Additional languages equal to 
your Intelligence modifier (if it's 
positive). Choose from Celestial, 
Draconic, Gnoll, Gnomish, 
Goblin, Orcish, Sylvan, and 

any other languages to which 
you have access (such as 

the languages prevalent in 
your region). 


Traits 
Elf 
Humanoid 


Low-Light Vision 

You can see in dim light as 
though it were bright light, 
so you ignore the concealed 
condition due to dim light. 


Fille 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 
Te 


* 
.. THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
2 GAME 


SEER ELF 


You have an inborn ability to detect and understand 
magical phenomena. You can cast the detect magic cantrip 
as an arcane innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to 
a spell level equal to half your level rounded up. 

In addition, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to 
checks to Identify Magic and to Decipher Writing of 
a magical nature. These skill actions typically use the 
Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion skill. 


WHISPER ELF 


Your ears are finely tuned, able to detect even the slightest 
whispers of sound. As long as you can hear normally, you 
can use the Seek action to sense undetected creatures in 
a 60-foot cone instead of a 30-foot cone. You also gain 
a +2 circumstance bonus to locate undetected creatures 
that you could hear within 30 feet with a Seek action. 


WOODLAND ELF 


You’re adapted to life in the forest or the deep jungle, 
and you know how to climb trees and use foliage to your 
advantage. When Climbing trees, vines, and other foliage, 
you move at half your Speed on a success and at full 
Speed on a critical success (and you move at full Speed 
on a success if you have Quick Climb). This doesn't affect 
you if you're using a climb Speed. 

You can always use the Take Cover action when you 
are within forest terrain to gain cover, even if you're not 
next to an obstacle you can Take Cover behind. 


ANCESTRY FEATS 


At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain 
an additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 
5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th level). As an elf, you select from 
among the following ancestry feats. 


IST LEVEL 


ANCESTRAL LONGEVITY FEAT 1 
Ed 

Prerequisites at least 100 years old 

You have accumulated a vast array of lived knowledge over 
the years. During your daily preparations, you can reflect 
upon your life experiences to gain the trained proficiency 
rank in one skill of your choice. This proficiency lasts until 
you prepare again. Since this proficiency is temporary, you 
cant use it as a prerequisite for a skill increase or a permanent 
character option like a feat. 


ELVEN LORE 


Ea 
You've studied in traditional elven arts, learning about 
arcane magic and the world around you. You gain the 


trained proficiency rank in Arcana and Nature. If you would 


FEAT 1 


automatically become trained in one of those skills (from 
your background or class, for example), you instead become 
trained in a skill of your choice. You also become trained in 
Elven Lore. 


ELVEN WEAPON FAMILIARITY 


ELF | 
um bows and other elegant weapons. You are trained 
with longbows, composite longbows, longswords, rapiers, 
shortbows, and composite shortbows. 

In addition, you gain access to all uncommon elf weapons. 
For the purpose of determining your proficiency, martial elf 
weapons are simple weapons and advanced elf weapons are 
martial weapons. 


FORLORN 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


Watching your friends age and die fills you with moroseness 
that protects you against harmful emotions. You gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to saving throws against emotion effects. 
If you roll a success on a saving throw against an emotion 
effect, you get a critical success instead. 


NIMBLE ELF 
| 


Your muscles are tightly honed. Your Speed increases by 5 feet. 


OTHERWORLDLY MAGIC FEAT 1 
Ed 

Your elven magic manifests as a simple arcane spell, even if 
you aren't formally trained in magic. Choose one cantrip from 
the arcane spell list (page 307). You can cast this cantrip as an 
arcane innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell 
level equal to half your level rounded up. 


UNWAVERING MIEN 
E 

Your mystic control and meditations allow you to resist 
external influences upon your consciousness. Whenever you 
are affected by a mental effect that lasts at least 2 rounds, you 
can reduce the duration by 1 round. 

You still require natural sleep, but you treat your saving 
throws against effects that would cause you to fall asleep as 
one degree of success better. This protects only against sleep 
effects, not against other forms of falling unconscious. 


STH LEVEL 


AGELESS PATIENCE FEAT 5 
[ur | 

You work at a pace born from longevity that enhances your 
thoroughness. You can voluntarily spend twice as much 
time as normal on a Perception check or skill check to gain 
a +2 circumstance bonus to that check. You also don't treat 
a natural 1 as worse than usual on these checks; you get a 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS 


critical failure only if your result is 10 lower than the DC. For example, you could get these ELVEN ADVENTURERS ) INTRODUCTION 

benefits if you spent 2 actions to Seek, which normally takes 1 action. You can get these Many elves adventure to find 

benefits during exploration by taking twice as long exploring as normal, or in downtime by beauty and discover new 

spending twice as much downtime. things. Typical backgrounds 
The GM might determine a situation doesn't grant you a benefit if a delay would for an elf include emissary, 

be directly counterproductive to your success, such as a tense negotiation with an hunter, noble, scholar, or scout. 


ANCESTRIES & 


BACKGROUNDS 


impatient creature. Elves often become rangers or CLASSES 
rogues, taking advantage of 
ELVEN WEAPON ELEGANCE FEAT 5 their dexterity, or alchemists SKILLS 
ELF or wizards, exploring their 
Prerequisites Elven Weapon Familiarity intellectual curiosity. FEATS 
You are attuned to the weapons of your elven ancestors and are particularly deadly when 
using them. Whenever you critically hit using an elf weapon or one of the weapons listed in EQUIPMENT 
Elven Weapon Familiarity, you apply the weapons critical specialization effect. 
SPELLS 
9TH LEVEL 
THE AGE OF 
ELF STEP +> FEAT9 LOST OMENS 
ELF 
You move in a graceful dance, and even your steps are broad. You Step 5 feet twice. PLAYING THE 
GAME 
EXPERT LONGEVITY FEAT 9 
ELF wu BAME 
Prerequisites Ancestral Longevity MASTERING 
You've continued to refine the knowledge and skills you've gained through T 
your life. When you choose a skill in which to become trained with am CRAFTING 
Ancestral Longevity, you can also choose a skill in which you are already ASG B TREASURE 
trained and become an expert in that skill. This lasts until your Ancestral 
Longevity expires. APPENDIX 


When the effects of Ancestral Longevity and Expert Longevity expire, you can 
retrain one of your skill increases. The skill increase you gain from this retraining must 
either make you trained in the skill you chose with Ancestral Longevity or make you an 
expert in the skill you chose with Expert Longevity. 


13TH LEVEL 


UNIVERSAL LONGEVITY «> FEAT 13 
ELF 

Prerequisites Expert Longevity 

Frequency once per day 

You've perfected your ability to keep up with all the skills you've learned over your long 

life, so you're almost never truly untrained at a skill. You reflect on your life experiences, 

changing the skills you selected with Ancestral Longevity and Expert Longevity. 


ELVEN WEAPON EXPERTISE FEAT13 . 
ELF 

Prerequisites Elven Weapon Familiarity 

Your elven affinity blends with your class training, granting you 

great skill with elven weapons. Whenever you gain a class 

feature that grants you expert or greater proficiency 

in certain weapons, you also gain that proficiency in 

longbows, composite longbows, longswords, rapiers, 

shortbows, composite shortbows, and all elf weapons 

in which you are trained. 


^ 
i 


~ 
D i 
~ 


4 
- 


Ode e JD a i" "—-— 
E RULEBOOK 


GNOME 


Long ago, early gnome ancestors emigrated from the First World, realm of the fey. While 
it’s unclear why the first gnomes wandered to Golarion, this lineage manifests in modern 
gnomes as bizarre reasoning, eccentricity, obsessive tendencies, and what some see as 
naivete. These qualities are further reflected in their physical characteristics, such as 
spindly limbs, brightly colored hair, and childlike and extremely expressive facial features 
that further reflect their otherworldly origins. 


— tig gg 9 A 


Always hungry for new experiences, gnomes constantly 
wander both mentally and physically, attempting to stave 
off a terrible ailment that threatens all of their people. 


If you want a character with boundless enthusiasm 
and an alien, fey outlook on morality and life, you should 
play a gnome. 


This affliction—the Bleaching—strikes gnomes who 
YOU MIGHT... 


* Embrace learning and hop from one area of study 


fail to dream, innovate, and take in new experiences, 
in the gnomes' absence of crucial magical essence 
from the First World. Gnomes latch onto a source of to another without warning. 

localized magic where they live, typically primal magic, * Rush into action before fully taking stock of the 
as befits their fey lineage, but this isn't enough to avoid entire situation. 

the Bleaching unless they supplement this magic with * Speak, think, and move quickly, and lose patience 
new experiences. 


The Bleaching slowly drains the with those who can't keep up. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Appreciate your enthusiasm and the energy with 


color—literally—from gnomes, and it plunges those 
affected into states of deep depression that eventually 
claim their lives. Very few gnomes survive 
this scourge, becoming deeply morose which you approach new situations. 


and wise survivors known * Struggle to understand your motivations or adapt 


as bleachlings. to your rapid changes of direction. 
* See you as unpredictable, flighty, unreliable, or 


even reckless. 


PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION 


Most gnomes stand just over 3 feet in height and weigh 
little more than a human child. They exhibit a wide 
range of natural skin, hair, and eye colors. For gnomes 
that haven't begun the Bleaching, nearly any hair and 
eye color other than white is possible, with vibrant 
colors most frequent, while skin tones span a slightly 
narrower spectrum and tend toward earthy tones and 
pinkish hues, though occasionally green, black, or pale 
blue. Gnomes' large eyes and dense facial muscles allow 
them to be particularly expressive in their emotions. 
Gnomes typically reach physical maturity at the age 
of 18, though many gnomes maintain a childlike 
curiosity about the world even into adulthood. 
A gnome can theoretically live to any age if 
she can stave off the Bleaching indefinitely, 
but in practice gnomes rarely live longer than 
around 400 years. 


SOCIETY 


While most gnomes adopt some of the cultural 
practices of the region in which they live, they tend 
to pick and choose, adjusting their communities to 
fit their own fey logic. This often leads to majority 
gnome communities eventually consisting almost entirely 


of gnomes, as other people, bewildered by gnomish political decisions, choose to 
move elsewhere. Gnomes have little culture that they would consider entirely their 
own. No gnome kingdoms or nations exist on the surface of Golarion, and gnomes 
wouldn’t know what to do with such a state if they had one. 

By necessity, few gnomes marry for life, instead allowing relationships to run their 
course before amicably moving on, the better to stave off the Bleaching with new 
experiences. Though gnome families tend to be small, many gnome communities 
raise children communally, with fluid family boundaries. As adults depart the 
settlement, unrelated adolescents sometimes tag along, creating adopted families to 
journey together. 


ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION 


Though gnomes are impulsive tricksters with inscrutable motives and confusing 
methods, many at least attempt to make the world a better place. They are prone to 
fits of powerful emotion, and they are often good but rarely lawful. Gnomes most 
commonly worship deities that value individuality and nature, such as Cayden 
Cailean, Desna, Gozreh, and Shelyn. 


NAMES 


Gnome names can get quite complex and polysyllabic. They have little interest in 
familial names, and most children receive their names purely on a parent’s whim. 
Gnomes rarely concern themselves with how easy their names are to pronounce, 
and they often go by shorter nicknames. Some even collect and chronicle 
these nicknames. Among gnomes, the shorter the name, the more feminine it’s 
considered to be. 


SAMPLE NAMES 
Abroshtor, Bastargre, Besh, Fijit, Halungalom, Krolmnite, Neji, Majet, Pai, 
Poshment, Queck, Trig, Zarzuket, Zatqualmie 


GNOME HERITAGES 


A diverse collection of oddballs, gnomes have all sorts of peculiar strains among 
their bloodlines. Choose one of the following gnome heritages at 1st level. 


CHAMELEON GNOME 


The color of your hair and skin is mutable, possibly due to latent magic. You can 
slowly change the vibrancy and the exact color, and the coloration can be different 
across your body, allowing you to create patterns or other colorful designs. It takes 
a single action for minor localized shifts and up to an hour for dramatic shifts 
throughout your body. While you’re asleep, the colors shift on their own in tune 
with your dreams, giving you an unusual coloration each morning. When you're in 
an area where your coloration is roughly similar to the environment (for instance, 
forest green in a forest), you can use the single action to make minor localized 
shifts designed to help you blend into your surroundings. This grants you a +2 
circumstance bonus to Stealth checks until your surroundings shift in coloration 
or pattern. 


FEY-TOUCHED GNOME 


The blood of the fey is so strong within you that you’re truly one of them. You gain 
the fey trait, in addition to the gnome and humanoid traits. Choose one cantrip 
from the primal spell list (page 314). You can cast this spell as a primal innate spell 
at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level equal to half your level rounded up. 
You can change this cantrip to a different one from the same list once per day by 
meditating to realign yourself with the First World; this is a 10-minute activity that 
has the concentrate trait. 


Hit Points 
8 


Size 
Small 


Speed 
25 feet 


Ability Boosts 
Constitution 
Charisma 

Free 


Ability Flaw 
Strength 


Languages 

Common 

Gnomish 

Sylvan 

Additional languages equal to 
your Intelligence modifier (if it’s 
positive). Choose from Draconic, 
Dwarven, Elven, Goblin, Jotun, 
Orcish, and any other languages 
to which you have access (such 
as the languages prevalent in 
your region). 


Traits 
Gnome 
Humanoid 


Low-Light Vision 

You can see in dim light as 
though it were bright light, 
and you ignore the concealed 
condition due to dim light. 


—ÓÀ 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


j 


S. 
EQUIPMENT 

E 

SPELLS 

tt 


Fox 


^i 


s 
.. THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
2  BAME 


al 


GAME 


re eal a MERI en e hcm maie TT 
R) C E RULEBOOK 4 
Ai ————— eo a 
SENSATE GNOME 


You see all colors as brighter, hear all sounds as richer, 
and especially smell all scents with incredible detail. 
You gain a special sense: imprecise scent with a range of 
30 feet. This means you can use your sense of smell to 
determine the exact location of a creature (as explained 
on page 465). The GM will usually double the range if 
you’re downwind from the creature or halve the range 
if you’re upwind. 

In addition, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to 
Perception checks whenever you’re trying to locate an 
undetected creature that is within the range of your scent. 


UMBRAL GNOME 


Whether from a connection to dark or shadowy fey, 
from the underground deep gnomes also known as 
svirfneblin, or another source, you can see in complete 
darkness. You gain darkvision. 


WELLSPRING GNOME 


Some other source of magic has a greater hold on 
you than the primal magic of your fey lineage does. 
This connection might come from an occult plane 
or an ancient occult song; a deity, celestial, or fiend; 
magical effluent left behind by a mage war; or ancient 
rune magic. 

Choose arcane, divine, or occult. You gain one cantrip 
from that magical tradition’s spell list (pages 307-315). 
You can cast this spell as an innate spell at will, as a 
spell of your chosen tradition. A cantrip is heightened 
to a spell level equal to half your level rounded up. 
Whenever you gain a primal innate spell from a gnome 
ancestry feat, change its tradition from primal to your 
chosen tradition. 


ANCESTRY FEATS 


At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain 
an additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 
5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a gnome, you select 
from among the following ancestry feats. 


IST LEVEL 


ANIMAL ACCOMPLICE FEAT 1 


You build a rapport with an animal, which becomes magically 
bonded to you. You gain a familiar using the rules on page 
217. The type of animal is up to you, but most gnomes choose 
animals with a burrow Speed. 


BURROW ELOCUTIONIST FEAT 1 


You recognize the chittering of ground creatures as its own 
peculiar language. You can ask questions of, receive answers 


from, and use the Diplomacy skill with animals that have a 
burrow Speed, such as badgers, ground squirrels, moles, and 
prairie dogs. The GM determines which animals count for 
this ability. 


FEY FELLOWSHIP 


| nome | 

Your enhanced fey connection affords you a warmer reception 
from creatures of the First World as well as tools to foil their 
tricks. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to both Perception 
checks and saving throws against fey. 

In addition, whenever you meet a fey creature in a social 
situation, you can immediately attempt a Diplomacy check to 
Make an Impression on that creature rather than needing to 
converse for 1 minute. You take a -5 penalty to the check. 
If you fail, you can engage in 1 minute of conversation and 
attempt a new check at the end of that time rather than 
accepting the failure or critical failure result. 

Special If you have the Glad-Hand skill feat, you don't take 
the penalty on your immediate Diplomacy check if the target 
is a fey. 


FIRST WORLD MAGIC 
E 

Your connection to the First World grants you a primal innate 
spell, much like those of the fey. Choose one cantrip from the 
primal spell list (page 314). You can cast this spell as a primal 
innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level 
equal to half your level rounded up. 


GNOME OBSESSION 
You might have a flighty nature, but when a topic captures 
your attention, you dive into it headfirst. Pick a Lore skill. You 
gain the trained proficiency rank in that skill. At 2nd level, 
you gain expert proficiency in the chosen Lore as well as the 
Lore granted by your background, if any. At 7th level you gain 
master proficiency in these Lore skills, and at 15th level you 
gain legendary proficiency in them. 


GNOME WEAPON FAMILIARITY 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


You favor unusual weapons tied to your people, such as blades 
with curved and peculiar shapes. You are trained with the 
glaive and kukri. 

In addition, you gain access to kukris and all uncommon 
gnome weapons. For the purpose of determining your 
proficiency, martial gnome weapons are simple weapons and 
advanced gnome weapons are martial weapons. 


ILLUSION SENSE 
Your ancestors spent their days cloaked and cradled in 
illusions, and as a result, sensing illusion magic is second 
nature to you. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to both 
Perception checks and Will saves against illusions. 


FEAT 1 


When you come within 10 feet of an illusion that can be disbelieved, the GM rolls a secret 
check for you to disbelieve it, even if you didn't spend an action to Interact with the illusion. 


STH LEVEL 


ANIMAL ELOCUTIONIST FEAT 5 
Prerequisites Burrow Elocutionist 

You hear animal sounds as conversations instead of unintelligent noise, and can respond in turn. 
You can speak to all animals, not just animals with a burrow Speed. You gain a *1 circumstance 
bonus to Make an Impression on animals (which usually uses the Diplomacy skill). 


ENERGIZED FONT +> 

EUA s focus pool, at least one innate spell from a gnome heritage or ancestry feat that 
shares a tradition with at least one of your focus spells 

Frequency once per day 

The magic within you provides increased energy you can use to focus. You regain 1 Focus 

Point, up to your usual maximum. 


GNOME WEAPON INNOVATOR 

Prerequisites Gnome Weapon Familiarity 
You produce outstanding results when wielding unusual weapons. Whenever you 
critically hit using a glaive, kukri, or gnome weapon, you apply the weapon's 
critical specialization effect. 


FEAT 5 


FEAT 5 


gTH LEVEL 


FIRST WORLD ADEPT 

Prerequisites at least one primal innate spell 
Over time your fey magic has grown stronger. You gain faerie fire and invisibility as 
2nd-level primal innate spells. You can cast each of these 
primal innate spells once per day. 


VIVACIOUS CONDUIT 
Your connection to the First World has grown, and 
its positive energy flows into you rapidly. If you rest for 
10 minutes, you regain Hit Points equal to your Constitution | 
modifier x half your level. This is cumulative with any healing you 

receive from Treat Wounds. 


FEAT 9 


13TH LEVEL 


GNOME WEAPON EXPERTISE 
MM nes Gnome Weapon Familiarity 
Your gnome affinity blends with your class training, granting you great skill with gnome 
weapons. Whenever you gain a class feature that grants you expert or greater proficiency 
in a given weapon or weapons, you also gain that proficiency in the glaive, kukri, and all 
gnome weapons in which you are trained. 


FEAT 13 


ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS 


GNOME ADVENTURERS 
Adventure is not so much a 
choice as a necessity for most 
gnomes. Adventuring gnomes 
often claim mementos, allowing 
them to remember and relive 
their most exciting stories. 
Gnomes often consider the 
entertainer, merchant, or nomad 
backgrounds. In addition, the 
animal whisperer, barkeep, 
gambler, and tinker backgrounds 
are particularly appropriate. 
Gnomes’ connection to magic 
makes spellcasting classes 
particularly thematic for you, 
especially classes that match the 
tradition of your primal innate 
spells, such as druid or primal 
sorcerer, though wellspring 
gnomes might choose others. 


NS 


T 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES 8 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 


SKILLS 


FEATS 


le, 


EQUIPMENT 
! . SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


p. PLAYING THE 
i GAME 


GAME 
PRASTERING 


et ae 


WL 


GOBLIN 


The convoluted histories other people cling to don't interest goblins. These small folk live 
in the moment, and they prefer tall tales over factual records. The wars of a few decades 
ago might as well be from the ancient past. Misunderstood by other people, goblins are 
happy how they are. Goblin virtues are about being present, creative, and honest. They 
strive to lead fulfilled lives, rather than worrying about how their journeys will end. To 
tell stories, not nitpick the facts. To be small, but dream big. 


S$ tig gg 9 ———————————— 


Goblins have a reputation as simple creatures who love 
songs, fire, and eating disgusting things and who hate 
reading, dogs, and horses—and there are a great many 
for whom this description fits perfectly. However, great 
changes have come to goblinkind, and more and more 
goblins resist conformity to these stereotypes. Even among 
goblins that are more worldly, many still exemplify their 
old ways in some small manner, just to a more sensible 
degree. Some goblins remain deeply fascinated with fire or 
fearlessly devour a meal that might turn others’ stomachs. 


Others are endless tinkerers and view their companions’ 
trash as the components of gadgets yet to be made. 

Though goblins’ culture has splintered radically, their 
reputation has changed little. As such, goblins who travel 
to larger cities are frequently subjected to derision, and 
many work twice as hard at proving their worth. 

If you want a character who is eccentric, enthusiastic, 
and fun-loving, you should play a goblin. 


Mo MIGHT... 


Strive to prove that you have a place among other 
civilized peoples, perhaps even to yourself. 

e Fight tooth and nail—sometimes literally—to 
protect yourself and your friends from danger. 

* Lighten the heavy emotional burdens others carry 
(and amuse yourself) with antics and pranks. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Work to ensure you don’t accidentally (or 
intentionally) set too many things on fire. 

* Assume you can't—or won't—read. 

* Wonder how you survive given your ancestry's 
typical gastronomic choices, reckless behavior, 
and love of fire. 


PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION 


Goblins are stumpy humanoids with large bodies, 
scrawny limbs, and massively oversized heads with large 
ears and beady red eyes. Their skin ranges from green to 
gray to blue, and they often bear scars, boils, and rashes. 
Goblins average 3 feet tall. Most are bald, with little 
or no body hair. Their jagged teeth fall out and regrow 
constantly, and their fast metabolism means they eat 
constantly and nap frequently. Mutations are also more 
common among goblins than other peoples, and goblins 
usually view particularly salient mutations as a sign of 
power or fortune. 

Goblins reach adolescence by the age of 3 and adulthood 
4 or 5 years later. Goblins can live 50 years or more, 
but without anyone to protect them from each other or 
themselves, few live past 20 years of age. 


SOCIETY 


Goblins tend to flock to strong leaders, forming small 
tribes. These tribes rarely number more than a hundred, 


though the larger a tribe is, the more diligent the leader must be to keep order—a 
notoriously difficult task. As new threats rise across the Inner Sea region, many tribal 
elders have put aside their reckless ways in the hope of forging alliances that offer 
their people a greater chance at survival. Play and creativity matter more to goblins 
than productivity or study, and their encampments erupt with songs and laughter. 

Goblins bond closely with their allies, fiercely protecting those companions who 
have protected them or offered a sympathetic ear. Goblins tend to assume for their 
own protection that members of taller ancestries, which goblins often refer to 
colloquially as “longshanks,” won’t treat them kindly. Learning to trust longshanks 
is difficult for a goblin, and it’s been only in recent years that such a partnership 
has even been an option. However, their attitude as a people is changing rapidly, 
and their short lifespans and poor memories help them adapt quickly. 


ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION 


Even well-intentioned goblins have trouble following the rules, meaning they’re 
rarely lawful. Most goblin adventurers are chaotic neutral or chaotic good. 
Organized worship confounds goblins, and most of them would rather pick their 
own deities, choosing powerful monsters, natural wonders, or anything else they 
find fascinating. Longshanks might have books upon books about the structures of 
divinity, but to a goblin, anything can be a god if you want it to. Goblins who spend 
time around people of other ancestries might adopt some of their beliefs, though, 
and many goblin adventurers adopt the worship of Cayden Cailean. 


NAMES 


Goblins keep their names simple. A good name should be easy to pronounce, short 
enough to shout without getting winded, and taste good to say. The namer often 
picks a word that rhymes with something they like so that writing songs is easier. 
Since there aren’t any real traditions regarding naming in goblin culture, children 
often name themselves once they’re old enough to do something resembling talking. 


SAMPLE NAMES 
Ak, Bokker, Frum, Guzmuk, Krobby, Loohi, Mazmord, Neeka, Omgot, Ranzak, 
Rickle, Tup, Wakla, Yonk, Zibini 


GOBLIN HERITAGES 

Goblins, especially those of different tribes, have all sorts of physiological differences, 
which they often discover only through hazardous “experiments.” Choose one of the 
following goblin heritages at 1st level. 


CHARHIDE GOBLIN 


Your ancestors have always had a connection to fire and a thicker skin, which allows 
you to resist burning. You gain fire resistance equal to half your level (minimum 1). 
You can also recover from being on fire more easily. Your flat check to remove 
persistent fire damage is DC 10 instead of DC 15, which is reduced to DC 5 if 
another creature uses a particularly appropriate action to help. 


IRONGUT GOBLIN 


You can subsist on food that most folks would consider spoiled. You can keep yourself 
fed with poor meals in a settlement as long as garbage is readily available, without using 
the Subsist downtime activity. You can eat and drink things when you are sickened. 

You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to saving throws against afflictions, against 
gaining the sickened condition, and to remove the sickened condition. When you 
roll a success on a Fortitude save affected by this bonus, you get a critical success 
instead. All these benefits apply only when the affliction or condition resulted from 
something you ingested. 


Hit Points 
6 


Size 
Small 


Speed 
25 feet 


Ability Boosts 
Dexterity 
Charisma 

Free 


Ability Flaw 
Wisdom 


Languages 

Common 

Goblin 

Additional languages equal to 
your Intelligence modifier (if it's 
positive). Choose from Draconic, 
Dwarven, Gnoll, Gnomish, 
Halfling, Orcish, and any other 
languages to which you have 
access (such as the languages 
prevalent in your region). 


Traits 
Goblin 
Humanoid 


Darkvision 

You can see in darkness and 
dim light just as well as you 
can see in bright light, though 
your vision in darkness is in 
black and white. 


—ÓÀ 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


j 


S. 
EQUIPMENT 

E 

SPELLS 

tt 


Æ 

MN 
THE AGE OF 
_ LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
GAME 


1l 


GAME 


re eal a DIE ae | 
R) C E RULEBOOK 4 
-€—À— pem - m 2 
RAZORTOOTH GOBLIN 


Your family’s teeth are formidable weapons. You gain 
a jaws unarmed attack that deals 1d6 piercing damage. 
Your jaws are in the brawling group and have the finesse 
and unarmed traits. 


SNOW GOBLIN 


You are acclimated to living in frigid lands and have 
skin ranging from sky blue to navy in color, as well as 
blue fur. You gain cold resistance equal to half your level 
(minimum 1). You treat environmental cold effects as if 
they were one step less extreme (incredible cold becomes 
extreme, extreme cold becomes severe, and so on). 


UNBREAKABLE GOBLIN 


Yov're able to bounce back from injuries easily due to an 
exceptionally thick skull, cartilaginous bones, or some 
other mixed blessing. You gain 10 Hit Points from your 
ancestry instead of 6. When you fall, reduce the falling 
damage you take as though you had fallen half the distance. 


ANCESTRY FEATS 


At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an 
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a goblin, you can select 
from the following ancestry feats. 


IST LEVEL 


BURN IT! FEAT1 
Fire fascinates you. Your spells and alchemical items that deal 
fire damage gain a status bonus to damage equal to half the 
spell's level or one-quarter the item's level (minimum 1). You also 
gain a *1 status bonus to any persistent fire damage you deal. 


CITY SCAVENGER FEAT 1 


GOBLIN 

E m that the greatest treasures often look like refuse, and 
you scoff at those who throw away perfectly good scraps. You 
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to checks to Subsist, and you can 
use Society or Survival when you Subsist in a settlement. 

When you Subsist in a city, you also gather valuable junk 
that silly longshanks threw away. You can Earn Income using 
Society or Survival in the same time as you Subsist, without 
spending any additional days of downtime. You also gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to this check. 

Special If you have the irongut goblin heritage, increase the 
bonuses to +2. 


GOBLIN LORE 
Em 

You've picked up skills and tales from your goblin community. 
You gain the trained proficiency rank in Nature and Stealth. 


FEAT 1 


If you would automatically become trained in one of those 
skills (from your background or class, for example), you instead 
become trained in a skill of your choice. You also become trained 
in Goblin Lore. 


GOBLIN SCUTTLE D 

| GOBLIN | 

Trigger An ally ends a move action adjacent to you. 
You take advantage of your ally’s movement to adjust your 
position. You Step. 


GOBLIN SONG *> 

| cosun | 

You sing annoying goblin songs, distracting your foes with 

silly and repetitive lyrics. Attempt a Performance check 

against the Will DC of a single enemy within 30 feet. This has 

all the usual traits and restrictions of a Performance check. 
You can affect up to two targets within range if you have 

expert proficiency in Performance, four if you have master 

proficiency, and eight if you have legendary proficiency. 

Critical Success The target takes a -1 status penalty to 
Perception checks and Will saves for 1 minute. 

Success The target takes a -1 status penalty to Perception 
checks and Will saves for 1 round. 

Critical Failure The target is temporarily immune to attempts 
to use Goblin Song for 1 hour. 


GOBLIN WEAPON FAMILIARITY 
En 

Others might look upon them with disdain, but you know that 
the weapons of your people are as effective as they are sharp. 
You are trained with the dogslicer and horsechopper. 

In addition, you gain access to all uncommon goblin weapons. 
For the purpose of determining your proficiency, martial goblin 
weapons are simple weapons and advanced goblin weapons are 
martial weapons. 


JUNK TINKER 


GOBLIN 
E m make useful tools out of even twisted or rusted scraps. 
When using the Crafting skill to Craft, you can make level O 
items, including weapons but not armor, out of junk. This reduces 
the Price to one-quarter the usual amount but always results in a 
shoddy item. Shoddy items normally give a penalty, but you don't 
take this penalty when using shoddy items you made. 

You can also incorporate junk to save money while you Craft 
any item. This grants you a discount on the item as if you had 
spent 1 additional day working to reduce the cost, but the item 
is obviously made of junk. At the GM's discretion, this might 
affect the item's resale value depending on the buyer's tastes. 


ROUGH RIDER FEAT 1 


Í GOBLIN | 

You are especially good at riding traditional goblin mounts. You 
gain the Ride feat, even if you don't meet the prerequisites. 
You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Nature checks to use 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


Command an Animal on a goblin dog or wolf mount. You can always select a wolf as your 
animal companion, even if you would usually select an animal companion with the mount 
special ability, such as for a champion’s steed ally. 


VERY SNEAKY FEAT 1 


Taller folk rarely pay attention to the shadows at their feet, and you take full advantage of 
this. You can move 5 feet farther when you take the Sneak action, up to your Speed. 

In addition, as long as you continue to use Sneak actions and succeed at your Stealth check, 
you don't become observed if you don't have cover or greater cover and aren't concealed at 
the end of the Sneak action, as long as you have cover or greater cover or are concealed at 
the end of your turn. 


STH LEVEL 


GOBLIN WEAPON FRENZY FEAT5 


Prerequisites Goblin Weapon Familiarity 

You know how to wield your people's vicious weapons. Whenever you score a critical hit 
using a goblin weapon, you apply the weapons critical 

specialization effect. 


gTH LEVEL 


CAVE CLIMBER FEAT 9 ! 
Em XN 


After years of crawling and climbing through caverns, bh 
you can climb easily anywhere you go. You gain a climb 


Speed of 10 feet. 


SKITTERING SCUTTLE 


FEAT 9 


Prerequisites Goblin Scuttle 
You can scuttle farther and faster when maneuvering alongside 
allies. When you use Goblin Scuttle, you can Stride up to half your Speed 
instead of Stepping. 


13TH LEVEL 
GOBLIN WEAPON EXPERTISE 


FEAT 13 


Prerequisites Goblin Weapon Familiarity 

Your goblin affinity blends with your class training, granting you great 
skill with goblin weapons. Whenever you gain a class feature that grants 
you expert or greater proficiency in a given weapon or weapons, you 
also gain that proficiency in the dogslicer, horsechopper, and all goblin 
weapons in which you are trained. 


VERY, VERY SNEAKY 

Prerequisites Very Sneaky 
You can move up to your Speed when you use the Sneak action, and you no 
longer need to have cover or greater cover or be concealed to Hide or Sneak. 


FEAT 13 


ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS 


GOBLIN ADVENTURERS 
To some degree, almost every 
goblin is an adventurer, surviving 
life on the edge using skill and 


wits. Goblins exp 


lore and hunt 


for treasures by nature, though 


some become tru 


e adventurers 


in their own rights, often after 


being separated 
or tribe. 

Goblins often 
acrobat, crimina 
gladiator, hunter, 
urchin backgrou 


rom their group 


have the 

, entertainer, 
, and street 
nds. Consider 


playing an alchemist, since many 


goblins love fire, 


or a bard, since 


many goblins love songs. As 
scrappy survivors, goblins are 
often rogues who dart about the 
shadows, though their inherently 


charismatic natu 


re also draws 


them to the pursuit of magical 
classes such as sorcerer. 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES 8 


BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


RAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


K Z yy 


Oe I a i —— 
, RULEBOOK 


HALFLING 


Claiming no place as their own, balflings control few settlements larger than villages. 
Instead, they frequently live among humans within the walls of larger cities, carving out 
small communities alongside taller folk. Many balflings lead perfectly fulfilling lives in tbe 
shadows of their larger neighbors, while others prefer a nomadic existence, traveling the 
world and taking advantage of opportunities and adventures as they come. 


Optimistic and cheerful, blessed with uncanny luck, and 
driven by powerful wanderlust, halflings make up for 
their short stature with an abundance of bravado and 
curiosity. At once excitable and easygoing, they are the 
best kind of opportunists, and their passions favor joy 
over violence. Even in the jaws of danger, halflings rarely 
lose their sense of humor. 


Many taller people dismiss halflings due to their size 
or, worse, treat them like children. Halflings use these 
prejudices and misconceptions to their advantage, gaining 
access to opportunities and performing deeds of daring 
mischief or heroism. A halfling’s curiosity is tempered 
by wisdom and caution, leading to calculated risks and 
narrow escapes. 

While their wanderlust and curiosity sometimes drive 
them toward adventure, halflings also carry strong ties 
to house and home, often spending above their means to 
achieve comfort in their homelife. 

If you want to play a character who must contend with 
these opposing drives toward adventure and comfort, 
you should play a halfling. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Get along well with a wide variety of people and 
enjoy meeting new friends. 

* Find it difficult to resist indulging your curiosity, 
even when you know it’s going to lead to trouble. 

* Hold a deep and personal hatred of the practice of 
slavery and devote yourself to freeing those who 
still labor against their will. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Appreciate your ability to always find a silver 
lining or something to laugh about, no matter 
how dire the situation. 

* Think you bring good luck with you. 

* Underestimate your strength, endurance, and 


fighting prowess. 


PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION 


Halflings are short humanoids who look vaguely like 
smaller humans. They rarely grow to be more than 3 
feet in height. Halfling proportions vary, with some 
looking like shorter adult humans with slightly larger 
heads and others having proportions closer to those of 
a human child. 

Most halflings prefer to walk barefoot rather than 
wearing shoes, and those who do so develop roughly 
calloused soles on their feet over time. Tufts of thick, 
often-curly hair warm the tops of their broad, tanned 
feet. Halfling skin tones tend toward rich, tawny shades 
like amber or oak, and their hair color ranges from a light 
golden blond to raven black. 


Halflings reach physical adulthood around the age of 20. A typical halfling can live 
to be around 150 years old. 


SOCIETY 


Despite their jovial and friendly nature, halflings don’t usually tend to congregate. 
They have no cultural homeland in the Inner Sea region, and they instead weave 
themselves throughout the societies of the world. Halflings eke out whatever 
living they can manage, many performing menial labor or holding simple service 
jobs. Some halflings reject city life, instead turning to the open road and traveling 
from place to place in search of fortune and fame. These nomadic halflings often 
travel in small groups, sharing hardships and simple pleasures among close friends 
and family. 

Wherever halflings go, they seamlessly blend into the society they find themselves 
in, adapting to the culture of the predominant ancestry around them and adding 
their uniquely halfling twists, creating a blend of cultural diffusion that enriches 
both cultures. 


ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION 


Halflings are loyal to their friends and their family, but they aren’t afraid to do what 
needs to be done in order to survive. Halfling alignments vary, typically closely in 
keeping with the alignment of the other ancestries that live around them. Halflings 
favor gods that either grant luck, like Desna, or encourage guile, like Norgorber, 
and many appreciate Cayden Cailean's role as a liberator, as well as any religions 
common among other ancestries around them. 


NAMES 


Halfling names are usually two to three syllables, with a gentle sound that avoids 
hard consonants. Preferring their names to sound humble, halflings see overly long 
or complex names as a sign of arrogance. This goes only for their own people, 
however—halflings have names that suit them, and they understand that elves and 
humans might have longer names to suit their own aesthetics. Humans in particular 
have a tendency to refer to halflings by nicknames, with *Lucky" being common to 
the point of absurdity. 


SAMPLE NAMES 
Anafa, Antal, Bellis, Boram, Etune, Filiu, Jamir, Kaleb, Linna, Marra, Miro, Rillka, 
Sistra, Sumak, Yamyra 


HALFLING HERITAGES 

Living across the land, halflings of different heritages might appear in regions far 
from are their ancestors lived. Choose one of the following halfling heritages at 
1st level. 


GUTSY HALFLING 


Your family line is known for keeping a level head and staving off fear when the 
chips were down, making them wise leaders and sometimes even heroes. When 
you roll a success on a saving throw against an emotion effect, you get a critical 
success instead. 


HILLOCK HALFLING 


Accustomed to a calm life in the hills, your people find rest and relaxation especially 
replenishing, particularly when indulging in creature comforts. When you regain Hit 
Points overnight, add your level to the Hit Points regained. When anyone uses the 
Medicine skill to Treat your Wounds, you can eat a snack to add your level to the Hit 
Points you regain from their treatment. 


Hit Points 
6 


Size 
Small 


Speed 
25 feet 


Ability Boosts 
Dexterity 
Wisdom 

Free 


Ability Flaw 
Strength 


Languages 

Common 

Halfling 

Additional languages equal 

to your Intelligence modifier 

(if it’s positive). Choose from 
Dwarven, Elven, Gnomish, 
Goblin, and any other languages 
to which you have access (such 
as the languages prevalent in 
your region). 


Traits 
Halfling 
Humanoid 


Keen Eyes 

Your eyes are sharp, allowing 
you to make out small details 
about concealed or even 
invisible creatures that others 
might miss. You gain a +2 
circumstance bonus when using 
the Seek action to find hidden or 
undetected creatures within 30 
feet of you. When you target an 
opponent that is concealed from 
you or hidden from you, reduce 
the DC of the flat check to 3 for 
a concealed target or 9 for a 
hidden one. 


BACKGROUNDS 
me 


E 
j 


E ANCESTRIES & 


sA 
EQUIPMENT 
E 
SPELLS 
| Si pet 


.. THE AGE OF 
_ LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 
E. GAME 


^l 


- GAME 


C E RULEBOOK & 


A a — ti oi lt - e 


NOMADIC HALFLING 


Your ancestors have traveled from place to place for 
generations, never content to settle down. You gain two 
additional languages of your choice, chosen from among 
the common and uncommon languages available to you, 
and every time you take the Multilingual feat, you gain 
another new language. 


TWILIGHT HALFLING 


Your ancestors performed many secret acts under the 
concealing cover of dusk, whether for good or ill, and 
over time they developed the ability to see in twilight 
beyond even the usual keen sight of halflings. You gain 
low-light vision. 


WILDWOOD HALFLING 


You hail from deep in a jungle or forest, and you’ve 
learned how to use your small size to wriggle through 
undergrowth, vines, and other obstacles. You ignore 
difficult terrain from trees, foliage, and undergrowth. 


ANCESTRY FEATS 


At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an 
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at Sth, 
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a halfling, you select from 
among the following ancestry feats. 


IST LEVEL 


DISTRACTING SHADOWS FEAT 1 
You have learned to remain hidden by using larger folk as 
a distraction to avoid drawing attention to yourself. You 
can use creatures that are at least one size larger than you 
(usually Medium or larger) as cover for the Hide and Sneak 
actions, though you still can't use such creatures as cover for 
other uses, such as the Take Cover action. 


HALFLING LORE 


| HALFLING | 

You've dutifully learned how to keep your balance and how 
to stick to the shadows where it's safe, important skills 
passed down through generations of halfling tradition. You 
gain the trained proficiency rank in Acrobatics and Stealth. 
If you would automatically become trained in one of those 
skills (from your background or class, for example), you 
instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also 
become trained in Halfling Lore. 


HALFLING LUCK €» 


Í FORTUNE | HALFLING | 

Frequency once per day 

Trigger You fail a skill check or saving throw. 

Your happy-go-lucky nature makes it seem like misfortune 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


avoids you, and to an extent, that might even be true. You 
can reroll the triggering check, but you must use the new 
result, even if it's worse than your first roll. 


HALFLING WEAPON FAMILIARITY 
You favor traditional halfling weapons, so you've learned how to 
use them more effectively. You have the trained proficiency with 
the sling, halfling sling staff, and shortsword. You gain access to 
all uncommon halfling weapons. For the purpose of determining 
your proficiency, martial halfling weapons are simple weapons 
and advanced halfling weapons are martial weapons. 


SURE FEET 
Whether keeping your balance or scrambling up a tricky 
climb, your hairy, calloused feet easily find purchase. If 
you roll a success on an Acrobatics check to Balance or an 
Athletics check to Climb, you get a critical success instead. 
You're not flat-footed when you attempt to Balance or Climb. 


TITAN SLINGER FEAT 1 
You have learned how to use your sling to fell enormous 
creatures. When you hit on an attack with a sling against 
a Large or larger creature, increase the size of the weapon 
damage die by one step (details on increasing weapon 
damage die sizes can be found on page 279). 


UNFETTERED HALFLING 
You were forced into service as a laborer, either pressed into 
indentured servitude or shackled by the evils of slavery, but 
you've since escaped and have trained to ensure you'll never 
be caught again. Whenever you roll a success on a check to 
Escape or a saving throw against an effect that would impose 
the grabbed or restrained condition on you, you get a critical 
success instead. Whenever a creature rolls a failure on a check 
to Grapple you, they get a critical failure instead. If a creature 
uses the Grab ability on you, it must succeed at an Athletics 
check to grab you instead of automatically grabbing you. 


WATCHFUL HALFLING FEAT 1 
Your communal lifestyle causes you to pay close attention 
to the people around you, allowing you to more easily notice 
when they act out of character. You gain a +2 circumstance 
bonus to Perception checks when using the Sense Motive 
basic action to notice enchanted or possessed characters. If 
you arent actively using Sense Motive on an enchanted or 
possessed character, the GM rolls a secret check, without the 
usual circumstance and with a -2 circumstance penalty, for you 
to potentially notice the enchantment or possession anyway. 
In addition to using it for skill checks, you can use the Aid 
basic action to grant a bonus to another creature's saving 
throw or other check to overcome enchantment or possession. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS 


As usual for Aid, you need to prepare by using an action on your turn to encourage the HALFLING ADVENTURERS INTRODUCTION 
creature to fight against the effect. Halflings’ natural wanderlust 
and opportunistic nature make 


ANCESTRIES & 


them ideal adventurers. Many 
STH LEVEL people put up with their vivacious BACKGROUNDS 


attitudes in return for the natural 


CULTURAL ADAPTABILITY FEAT 5 talents they provide and the CLASSES 

popular superstition that traveling 

During your adventures, you've honed your ability to adapt to the culture of the predominant with a halfling is good luck. SKILLS 

ancestry around you. You gain the Adopted Ancestry general feat, and you also gain one Typical backgrounds for 

1st-level ancestry feat from the ancestry you chose for the Adopted Ancestry feat. halflings include acrobat, FEATS 
criminal, emissary, entertainer, 

HALFLING WEAPON TRICKSTER FEAT 5 laborer, and street urchin. EQUIPMENT 

Halflings make great clerics 

Prerequisites Halfling Weapon Familiarity and rogues, but many also SPELLS 


You are particularly adept at fighting with your people's favored weapons. Whenever you become monks or rangers. 
critically succeed at an attack roll using a shortsword, a sling, or a halfling weapon, you 


apply the weapons critical specialization effect. THE AGE OF 

LOST OMENS 

9TH LEVEL PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GUIDING LUCK FEAT 9 
Prerequisites Halfling Luck 

Your luck guides you to look the right way and aim your blows unerringly. You can use 
Halfling Luck twice per day: once in response to its normal trigger, and once when you 
fail a Perception check or attack roll instead of the normal trigger. 


IRREPRESSIBLE FEAT 9 
You are easily able to ward off attempts to play on your fears and 
emotions. When you roll a success on a saving throw against an 
emotion effect, you get a critical success instead. If your heritage 

is gutsy halfling, when you roll a critical failure on a saving throw 

against an emotion effect, you get a failure instead. 


13TH LEVEL 


CEASELESS SHADOWS FEAT 13 
Prerequisites Distracting Shadows 

You excel at going unnoticed, especially among a crowd. You no longer 
need to have cover or be concealed to Hide or Sneak. If you would have 
lesser cover from creatures, you gain cover and can Take Cover, and if 
you would have cover from creatures, you gain greater cover. 


HALFLING WEAPON EXPERTISE FEAT 13 
Prerequisites Halfling Weapon Familiarity 

Your halfling affinity blends with your class training, granting you great 
skill with halfling weapons. Whenever you gain a class feature that grants 
you expert or greater proficiency in a given weapon or weapons, you also 
gain that proficiency in the sling, halfling sling staff, shortsword, and all 
halfling weapons in which you are trained. 


FINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


HUMAN 


As unpredictable and varied as any of Golarion’s peoples, humans have exceptional drive 
and the capacity to endure and expand. Though many civilizations thrived before humanity 
rose to prominence, humans have built some of the greatest and the most terrible societies 
throughout the course of history, and today they are the most populous people in the 
realms around the Inner Sea. 


— tig gg 9 — ———————————— 


Humans’ ambition, versatility, and exceptional potential ancestries, giving rise to children who bear the traits of 
have led to their status as the world’s predominant ancestry. both parents. The most notable half-humans are half-elves 
Their empires and nations are vast, sprawling things, and half-orcs. 


and their citizens carve names for themselves with the 
strength of their sword arms and the power of their spells. SOCIETY 


Humanity is diverse and tumultuous, running the gamut Human variety also manifests in terms of their 


from nomadic to imperial, sinister to saintly. Many of governments, attitudes, and social norms. 


them venture forth to explore, to map the expanse of Though the oldest of human cultures can 
the multiverse, to search for long-lost treasure, or to trace their shared histories thousands of years 
lead mighty armies to conquer their neighbors—for into the past, 
no better reason than because they can. when compared 
If you want a character who can be to the societies 
just about anything, you should play 


a human. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Strive to achieve 


of the elves or 
dwarves, human 
civilizations seem in a 
state of constant flux as 
empires fragment and new 
kingdoms subsume the old. 


ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION 


Humanity is perhaps the most 


greatness, either in 
your own right or on 
behalf of a cause. 
* Seek to understand your 
purpose in the world. heterogeneous of all the ancestries, 
* Cherish your relationships with a capacity for great evil and boundless 


with family and friends. good. Some humans assemble into vast 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


e Respect your flexibility, your 


raging hordes, while others build 
sprawling cities. Considered as a whole, 
most humans are neutral, yet they 
adaptability, and—in most cases— tend to congregate into nations or 
your open-mindedness. communities of a shared alignment, 
* Distrust your intentions, fearing or at least a shared tendency 
you seek only power or wealth. toward an alignment. Humans 
* Aren't sure what to expect also worship a wide range 
from you and are hesitant to of gods and practice many 


assume your intentions. different religions, tending to 


PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION 


Humans’ physical characteristics 


seek favor from any divine 
being they encounter. 


NAMES 


Unlike many ancestral cultures, which 


are as varied as the world’s 
climes. Humans have a wide variety of skin and hair 
colors, body types, and facial features. Generally generally cleave to specific traditions and 
speaking, their skin has a darker hue the closer to shared histories, humanity’s diversity has resulted 
the equator they or their ancestors lived. in a near-infinite set of names. The humans of 
Humans reach physical adulthood around northern tribes have different names than those 
the age of 15, though mental maturity occurs a dwelling in southern nation-states. Humans 
few years later. A typical human can live to be around 90 throughout much of the world speak Common 


years old. Humans often intermarry with people of other (though some continents on Golarion have 


their own regional common languages), yet their names are as varied as their beliefs 
and appearances. 


ETHNICITIES 


A variety of human ethnic groups—many of which have origins on distant lands— 
populates the continents bordering Golarion’s Inner Sea. Human characters can be 
any of these ethnicities, regardless of what lands they call home. Information about 
Golarion’s human ethnicities appears on page 430 in Chapter 8. 

Characters of human ethnicities in the Inner Sea region speak Common (also known 
as Taldane), and some ethnicities grant access to an uncommon language. 


HALF-ELVES 
A half-elf is born to an elf and a human, or to two half-elves. The life of a half-elf 
can be difficult, often marked by a struggle to fit in. Half-elves don’t have their own 
homeland on Golarion, nor are populations of half-elves particularly tied to one 
another, since they often have very disparate human and elven traditions. Instead, 
most half-elves attempt to find acceptance in either human or elven settlements. 

Half-elves often appear primarily human, with subtly pointed ears and a taller 
stature than most full-blooded humans. Half-elves lack the almost alien eyes of their 
elf parents, though they do have a natural presence—and often a striking beauty— 
that leads many to become artists or entertainers. Despite this innate appeal, many 
half-elves have difficulty forming lasting bonds with either humans or elves due to the 
distance they feel from both peoples as a whole. 

Half-elves live longer than other humans, often reaching an age around 150 years. 
This causes some of them to fear friendship and romance with humans, knowing 
that they'll likely outlive their companions. 


PLAYING A HALF-ELF 


You can create a half-elf character by selecting the half-elf heritage at 1st level. This 
gives you access to elf and half-elf ancestry feats in addition to human ancestry feats. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Keep to yourself and find it difficult to form close bonds with others. 
* Strongly embrace or reject one side or the other of your parentage. 
* Identify strongly with and relate to other people with mixed ancestries. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Find you more attractive than humans and more approachable than elves. 
* Dismiss your human ethnicity and culture in light of your elven heritage. 
* Downplay the challenges of being caught between two cultures. 


HALF-ORCS 

A half-orc is the offspring of a human and an orc, or of two half-orcs. Because some 
intolerant people see orcs as more akin to monsters than people, they sometimes 
hate and fear half-orcs simply due to their lineage. This commonly pushes half-orcs 
to the margins of society, where some find work in manual labor or as mercenaries, 
and others fall into crime or cruelty. Many who can't stand the indignities heaped on 
them in human society find a home among their orc kin or trek into the wilderness 
to live in peace, apart from society's judgment. 

Humans often assume half-orcs are unintelligent or uncivilized, and half-orcs rarely 
find acceptance among societies with many such folk. To an orc tribe, a half-orc is 
considered smart enough to make a good war leader but weaker physically than other 
orcs. Many half-orcs thus end up having low status among orc tribes unless they can 
prove their strength. 


Hit Points 
8 


Size 
Medium 


Speed 
25 feet 


Ability Boosts 
Two free ability boosts 


Languages 

Common 

Additional languages equal to 
1 * your Intelligence modifier 
(if it's positive). Choose from 
the list of common languages 
and any other languages to 
which you have access (such 
as the languages prevalent in 
your region). 


Traits 
Human 
Humanoid 


OTHER HALVES 

By default, half-elves and 
half-orcs descend from 
humans, but your GM might 
allow you to be the offspring 
of an elf, orc, or different 
ancestry. In these cases, the 
GM will let you select the 
half-elf or half-orc heritage 
as the heritage for this other 
ancestry. The most likely 
other parent of a half-elf 

are gnomes and halflings, 
and the most likely parents 
of a half-orc are goblins, 
halflings, and dwarves. 


BACKGROUNDS 
me 


E 
j 


E ANCESTRIES & 


sA 
EQUIPMENT 

E 

SPELLS 

| Si pe 


.. THE AGE OF 
_ LOST OMENS 


proa THE 


A half-orc has a shorter lifespan than other humans, 
living to be roughly 70 years old. 


PLAYING A HALF-ORC 


You can create a half-orc character by selecting the 
half-orc heritage at 1st level. This gives you access to 
orc and half-orc ancestry feats in addition to human 
ancestry feats. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Ignore, embrace, or actively counter the common 
stereotypes about half-orcs. 


* Make the most of your size and strength, either 
physically or socially. 

* Keep your distance from people of most other 
ancestries, in case they unfairly reject you due to 
your orc ancestors. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Assume you enjoy and excel at fighting but aren't 
inclined toward magical or intellectual pursuits. 

* Pity you for the tragic circumstances they assume 
were involved in your birth. 

* Get out of your way and back down rather than 
face your anger. 


HUMAN HERITAGES 

Unlike other ancestries, humans don't have significant 
physiological differences defined by their lineage. Instead, 
their heritages either reveal their potential as a people or 
reflect lineages from multiple ancestries. Choose one of the 
following human heritages at 1st level. 


HALF -ELF 


Either one of your parents was an elf, or one or both were 
half-elves. You have pointed ears and other telltale signs 
of elf heritage. You gain the elf trait, the half-elf trait, and 
low-light vision. In addition, you can select elf, half-elf, 
and human feats whenever you gain an ancestry feat. 


HALF -ÜRE 


One of your parents was an orc, or one or both were 
half-orcs. You have a green tinge to your skin and other 
indicators of orc heritage. You gain the orc trait, the 
half-orc trait, and low-light vision. In addition, you can 
select orc, half-orc, and human feats whenever you gain 
an ancestry feat. 


SKILLED HERITAGE 


Your ingenuity allows you to train in a wide variety of 
skills. You become trained in one skill of your choice. 
At Sth level, you become an expert in the chosen skill. 


VERSATILE HERITAGE 


Humanity’s versatility and ambition have fueled its 
ascendance to be the most common ancestry in most 
nations throughout the world. Select a general feat of 
your choice for which you meet the prerequisites (as with 
your ancestry feat, you can select this general feat at any 
point during character creation). 


HUMAN ANCESTRY FEATS 

At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an 
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at Sth, 
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a human, you choose from 
among the following ancestry feats. 


IST LEVEL 


ADAPTED CANTRIP FEAT 1 


Prerequisites spellcasting class feature 
Through study of multiple magical traditions, you've altered 
a spell to suit your spellcasting style. Choose one cantrip 
from a magical tradition other than your own. If you have a 
spell repertoire or a spellbook, replace one of the cantrips you 
know or have in your spellbook with the chosen spell. If you 
prepare spells without a spellbook (if you're a cleric or druid, 
for example), one of your cantrips must always be the chosen 
spell, and you prepare the rest normally. You can cast this 
cantrip as a spell of your class's tradition. 

If you swap or retrain this cantrip later, you can choose its 
replacement from the same alternate tradition or a different one. 


COOPERATIVE NATURE 


FEAT 1 


The short human life span lends perspective and has taught 
you from a young age to set aside differences and work with 
others to achieve greatness. You gain a +4 circumstance 
bonus on checks to Aid. 


GENERAL TRAINING FEAT 1 


Your adaptability manifests in your mastery of a range of 
useful abilities. You gain a 1st-level general feat. You must 
meet the feat’s prerequisites, but if you select this feat during 
character creation, you can select the feat later in the process 
in order to determine which prerequisites you meet. 

Special You can select this feat multiple times, choosing a 
different feat each time. 


HAUGHTY OBSTINACY 
Your powerful ego makes it harder for others to order you 
around. If you roll a success on a saving throw against a 
mental effect that attempts to directly control your actions, 
you Critically succeed instead. If a creature rolls a failure on a 
check to Coerce you using Intimidation, it gets a critical failure 
instead (so it can't try to Coerce you again for 1 week). 


NATURAL AMBITION 
You were raised to be ambitious and always reach for the stars, 
leading you to progress quickly in your chosen field. You gain a 
1st-level class feat for your class. You must meet the prerequisites, 
but you can select the feat later in the character creation process 
in order to determine which prerequisites you meet. 


NATURAL SKILL 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


Your ingenuity allows you to learn a wide variety of skills. You 
gain the trained proficiency rank in two skills of your choice. 


UNCONVENTIONAL WEAPONRY FEAT 1 


You've familiarized yourself with a particular weapon, potentially 
from another ancestry or culture. Choose an uncommon simple 
or martial weapon with a trait corresponding to an ancestry 
(such as dwarf, goblin, or orc) or that is common in another 
culture. You gain access to that weapon, and for the purpose of 
determining your proficiency, that weapon is a simple weapon. 

If you are trained in all martial weapons, you can choose 
an uncommon advanced weapon with such a trait. You gain 
access to that weapon, and for the purpose of determining your 
proficiency, that weapon is a martial weapon. 


STH LEVEL 


ADAPTIVE ADEPT FEATS 


Prerequisites Adapted Cantrip, can cast 3rd-level spells 

You've continued adapting your magic to blend your class's 
tradition with your adapted tradition. Choose a cantrip or 
1st-level spell from the same magical tradition as your cantrip 
from Adapted Cantrip. You gain that spell, adding it to your spell 
repertoire, spellbook, or prepared spells just like the cantrip from 
Adapted Cantrip. You can cast this spell as a spell of your class's 
magical tradition. If you choose a 1st-level spell, you dont gain 
access to the heightened versions of that spell, meaning you can't 
prepare them if you prepare spells and you cant learn them or 
select the spell as a signature spell if you have a spell repertoire. 


CLEVER IMPROVISER 


FEAT5 


You've learned how to handle situations when you're out of 
your depth. You gain the Untrained Improvisation general 
feat. In addition, you can attempt skill actions that normally 
require you to be trained, even if you are untrained. 


STH LEVEL 


COOPERATIVE SOUL FEAT 9 


Prerequisites Cooperative Nature 

You have developed a soul-deep bond with your comrades and 
maintain an even greater degree of cooperation with them. If you 
are at least an expert in the skill you are Aiding, you get a success 
on any outcome rolled to Aid other than a critical success. 


INCREDIBLE IMPROVISATION <> 


FEAT9 


Prerequisites Clever Improviser 

Frequency once per day 

Trigger You attempt a check using a skill you're untrained in. 

A stroke of brilliance gives you a major advantage with a skill 
despite your inexperience. Gain a +4 circumstance bonus to 
the triggering skill check. 


ril let 


ANCESTRIES 8 
BACKGROUNDS 


me 


Es 
č 
| 


Pi r " 
EQUIPMENT 
E 
SPELLS 
Ec 


[^ 
.. THE AGE OF 
LosT OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
M GAME 


UC LEE 


ATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 


3 MULTITALENTED FEAT 9 


You've learned to split your focus between multiple classes 
with ease. You gain a 2nd-level multiclass dedication feat 
(for more about multiclass archetypes, see page 219), even if 
you normally couldn't take another dedication feat until you 
take more feats from your current archetype. 

If you're a half-elf, you don't need to meet the feat's ability 
score prerequisites. 


13TH LEVEL 


UNCONVENTIONAL EXPERTISE FEAT 13 
Prerequisites Unconventional Weaponry, trained in the weapon 
you chose for Unconventional Weaponry 

You've continued to advance your powers using your 
unconventional weapon. Whenever you gain a class feature 
that grants you expert or greater proficiency in certain 
weapons, you also gain that proficiency in the weapon you 
chose for Unconventional Weaponry. 


HALF-ELF AND HALF-ORC 
ANCESTRY FEATS 


A human with elf or orc blood is called a half-elf 
or half-orc, respectively, which is represented by the 
corresponding heritage. If you have the half-elf or half-orc 
heritage, you can select from additional ancestry feats not 
available to other humans. 


HALF -ELF ANCESTRY FEATS 


The following feats are available to half-elves. 


IST LEVEL 


ELF ATAVISM FEAT 1 
Your elven blood runs particularly strong, granting you features 
far more elven than those of a typical half-elf. You may also 
have been raised among elves, steeped in your elven ancestors’ 
heritage. You gain the benefits of the elf heritage of your elven 
parent or ancestors. You typically can't select a heritage that 
depends on or improves an elven feature you dont have. For 
example, you couldn't gain the cavern elf's darkvision ability 
if you didnt have low-light vision. In these cases, at the GM's 
discretion, you might gain a different benefit. 
Special You can take this feat only at 1st level, and you 
can't retrain out of this feat or into this feat. 


L] 
1 


AW 5TH LEVEL 


^ INSPIRE IMITATION FEAT 5 

Your own actions inspire your allies to great 
achievements. Whenever you critically succeed at 
a skill check, you automatically qualify to use the Aid 
reaction when attempting to help an ally using the same 
skill, even without spending an action to prepare to do so. 


SUPERNATURAL CHARM FEAT 5 
| HALFELF 


The elven magic in your blood manifests as a force you can use 


to become more appealing or alluring. You can cast 1st-level 
charm as an arcane innate spell once per day. 


HALF-ORC ANCESTRY FEATS 


The following feats are available to half-orcs. Some of 
these feats are common to people with orc blood, and 
have the orc trait, while others are specific to half-orcs 
and have the half-orc trait. 


IST LEVEL 


MONSTROUS PEACEMAKER FEAT 1 
Your dual human and orc nature has given you a unique 
perspective, allowing you to bridge the gap between humans 
and the many intelligent creatures in the world that humans 
consider monsters. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus 
to Diplomacy checks against non-humanoid intelligent 
creatures and against humanoids that are marginalized in 
human society (at the GM's discretion, but typically at least 
including giants, goblins, kobolds, and orcs). You also gain 
this bonus on Perception checks to Sense the Motives of 
such creatures. 


ORC FEROCITY > 

ES | once per day 

Trigger You would be reduced to O Hit Points but not 
immediately killed. 

Fierceness in battle runs through your blood, and you refuse to 

fall from your injuries. You avoid being knocked out and remain 

at 1 Hit Point, and your wounded condition increases by 1. 


ORC SIGHT FEAT 1 
Prerequisites low-light vision 
Your orc blood is strong enough to grant you the keen vision of 
your orc forebears. You gain darkvision, allowing you to see in 
darkness and dim light just as well as you can in bright light. 
However, in darkness, you see in black and white only. 

Special You can take this feat only at 1st level, and you can't 
retrain out of this feat or into this feat. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


effect, before rolling. 


You defend yourself against magic by relying on techniques 
derived from orc cultural superstitions. You gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to your saving throw against the 
triggering spell or magical effect. 


ORC WEAPON FAMILIARITY FEAT 1 


In combat, you favor the brutal weapons that are traditional 


OT —— 


for your orc ancestors. You are trained with the falchion 
and greataxe. In addition, you gain access to all uncommon 
orc weapons. For the purpose of determining your proficiency, 
martial orc weapons are simple weapons and advanced orc 
weapons are martial weapons. 


STH LEVEL 


ORC WEAPON CARNAGE FEATS 


Prerequisites Orc Weapon Familiarity 

You are brutally efficient with the weapons of your orc 
ancestors. Whenever you critically hit using a falchion, a 
greataxe, or an orc weapon, you apply the weapons critical 
specialization effect. 


VICTORIOUS VIGOR > 

E23 You bring a foe to O Hit Points. 
Your victories in battle fill you with pride and imbue you 
with the energy to fight a bit longer despite your wounds. 
You gain temporary Hit Points equal to your Constitution 
modifier until the end of your next turn. 


STH LEVEL 


PERVASIVE SUPERSTITION FEAT 9 


FEAT5 


Prerequisites Orc Superstition 

You steep yourself in superstition and practice ancient orc 
mental exercises for shrugging off the effects of magic. You 
gain a *1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against spells 
and magical effects at all times. 


13TH LEVEL 


INCREDIBLE FEROCITY FEAT 13 


Prerequisites Orc Ferocity 

Given time to collect yourself after a near-death scrape, you 
can rebuild your ferocity and withstand additional finishing 
blows. You can use Orc Ferocity with a frequency of once per 
hour, rather than once per day. 


ORC WEAPON EXPERTISE 

ES te Orc Weapon Familiarity 
Your orc affinity blends with your class training, granting 
you great skill with orc weapons. Whenever you gain a class 
feature that grants you expert or greater proficiency in a 
given weapon or weapons, you also gain that proficiency in 
the falchion, the greataxe, and all orc weapons in which you 
are trained. 


FEAT 13 


| 


t 
[ 


| 
| 


3 


| ANCESTRIES 8 
BACKGROUNDS 
ke. 


gs. 


M - 2l 


IPMENT 
SPELLS 

- THE AGE OF 

LOST OMENS 


“PLAYING THE 
GAME 


AME 


- id PHI ee a m = 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 3 
oS aE TT " —A AA cns i ai 


BACKGROUNDS 


Backgrounds allow you to customize your character based on their life before adventuring. 
This is the next step in their life story after their ancestry, which reflects the circumstances 
of their birth. Your character’s background can help you learn or portray more about their 
personality while also suggesting what sorts of things they’re likely to know. Consider 
what events set your character on their path to the life of an adventurer and how those 


circumstances relate to their background. 


— ti gg 9 os 


At 1st level when you create your character, you gain a 
background of your choice. This decision is permanent; 
you can’t change it at later levels. Each background listed 
here grants two ability boosts, a skill feat, and the trained 
proficiency rank in two skills, one of which is a Lore skill. 
If you gain the trained proficiency rank in a skill from your 
background and would then gain the trained proficiency 
rank in the same skill from your class at 1st level, you 
instead become trained in another skill of your choice. 

Lore skills represent deep knowledge of a specific 
subject and are described on page 247. If a Lore skill 
involves a choice (for instance, a choice of terrain), explain 
your preference to the GM, who has final say on whether 
it's acceptable or not. If you'd like some suggestions, the 
Common Lore Subcategories sidebar on page 248 lists a 
number of Lore skills that are suitable for most campaigns. 

Skill feats expand the functions of your skills and 
appear in Chapter 5: Feats. 


ACOLYTE BACKGROUND 
You spent your early days in a religious monastery or 
cloister. You may have traveled out into the world to spread 
the message of your religion or because you cast away the 
teachings of your faith, but deep down you'll always carry 
within you the lessons you learned. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Religion skill and the Scribing Lore 
skill. You gain the Student of the Canon skill feat. 


ACROBAT BACKGROUND 
In a circus or on the streets, you earned your pay by 
performing as an acrobat. You might have turned to 
adventuring when the money dried up, or simply decided to 
put your skills to better use. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Acrobatics skill and the Circus Lore 
skill. You gain the Steady Balance skill feat. 


ANIMAL WHISPERER BACKGROUND 
You have always felt a connection to animals, and it was 
only a small leap to learn to train them. As you travel, you 
continuously encounter different creatures, befriending them 
along the way. 


Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Wisdom or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Nature skill and a Lore skill related to 
one terrain inhabited by animals you like (such as Plains Lore 
or Swamp Lore). You gain the Train Animal skill feat. 


ARTISAN BACKGROUND 
As an apprentice, you practiced a particular form of building 
or crafting, developing specialized skill. You might have been 
a blacksmith's apprentice toiling over the forge for countless 
hours, a young tailor sewing garments of all kinds, or a 
shipwright shaping the hulls of ships. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Crafting skill and the Guild Lore skill. 
You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat. 


ARTIST BACKGROUND 
Your art is your greatest passion, whatever form it takes. 
Adventuring might help you find inspiration, or simply be a 
way to survive until you become a world-famous artist. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Crafting skill and the Art Lore skill. You 
gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat. 


BARKEEP BACKGROUND 
You have five specialties: hefting barrels, drinking, polishing 
steins, drinking, and drinking. You worked in a bar, where you 
learned how to hold your liquor and rowdily socialize. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Alcohol Lore 
skill. You gain the Hobnobber skill feat. 


BARRISTER BACKGROUND 
Piles of legal manuals, stern teachers, and experience in the 
courtroom have instructed you in legal matters. You're capable 
of mounting a prosecution or defense in court, and you tend 
to keep abreast of local laws, as you never can tell when you 
might need to know them on short notice. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Legal Lore skill. 
You gain the Group Impression skill feat. 


BOUNTY HUNTER BACKGROUND 
Bringing in lawbreakers lined your pockets. Maybe you had an 
altruistic motive and sought to bring in criminals to make the 
streets safer, or maybe the coin was motivation enough. Your 
techniques for hunting down criminals transfer easily to the 
life of an adventurer. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Survival skill and the Legal Lore skill. 
You gain the Experienced Tracker skill feat. 


CHARLATAN BACKGROUND 
You traveled from place to place, peddling false fortunes and 
snake oil in one town, pretending to be royalty in exile to seduce 
a wealthy heir in the next. Becoming an adventurer might be 
your next big scam or an attempt to put your talents to use for a 
greater cause. Perhaps it’s a bit of both, as you realize that after 
pretending to be a hero, you've become the mask. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Deception skill and the Underworld 
Lore skill. You gain the Charming Liar skill feat. 


CRIMINAL BACKGROUND 
As an unscrupulous independent or as a member of an 
underworld organization, you lived a life of crime. You might 
have become an adventurer to seek redemption, to escape the 
law, or simply to get access to bigger and better loot. 


> ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS | 


-— >> 


4, 


Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Stealth skill and the Underworld Lore 
skill. You gain the Experienced Smuggler skill feat. 


DETECTIVE BACKGROUND 
You solved crimes as a police inspector or took jobs for 
wealthy clients as a private investigator. You might have 
become an adventurer as part of your next big mystery, 
but likely it was due to the consequences or aftermath of 
a prior case. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Society skill and the Underworld Lore 
skill. You gain the Streetwise skill feat. 


EMISSARY BACKGROUND 
As a diplomat or messenger, you traveled to lands far and 
wide. Communicating with new people and forming alliances 
were your stock and trade. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Society skill and a Lore skill related 
to one city you've visited often. You gain the Multilingual 
skill feat. 


ENTERTAINER BACKGROUND 


Through an education in the arts or sheer dogged practice, 


4 
— 


INTRODUCTION 


^im 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 
h 

| — APPENDIX 


Á vem NDI OE ee a m maerens 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 3 
A a a ai ade 


you learned to entertain crowds. You might have been an 
actor, a dancer, a musician, a street magician, or any other 
sort of performer. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Performance skill and the Theater Lore 
skill. You gain the Fascinating Performance skill feat. 


FARMHAND BACKGROUND 


With a strong back and an understanding of seasonal cycles, 
you tilled the land and tended crops. Your farm could have 
been razed by invaders, you could have lost the family tying 
you to the land, or you might have simply tired of the drudgery, 
but at some point you became an adventurer. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Athletics skill and the Farming Lore 
skill. You gain the Assurance skill feat with Athletics. 


FIELD MEDIC BACKGROUND 


In the chaotic rush of battle, you learned to adapt to rapidly 
changing conditions as you administered to battle casualties. 
You patched up soldiers, guards, or other combatants, and 
learned a fair amount about the logistics of war. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Medicine skill and the Warfare Lore 
skill. You gain the Battle Medicine skill feat. 


FORTUNE TELLER BACKGROUND 


The strands of fate are clear to you, as you have learned many 
traditional forms by which laypeople can divine the future. 
You might have used these skills to guide your community, or 
simply to make money. But even the slightest peek into these 
practices connects you to the occult mysteries of the universe. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Occultism skill and the Fortune-Telling 
Lore skill. You gain the Oddity Identification skill feat. 


GAMBLER BACKGROUND 


The thrill of the win drew you into games of chance. This 
might have been a lucrative sideline that paled in comparison 
to the real risks of adventuring, or you might have fallen on 
hard times due to your gambling and pursued adventuring as 
a way out of a spiral. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Deception skill and the Games Lore 
skill. You gain the Lie to Me skill feat. 


GLADIATOR BACKGROUND 


The bloody games of the arena taught you the art of combat. 
Before you attained true fame, you departed—or escaped-the 
arena to explore the world. Your skill at drawing both blood 
and a crowd's attention pay off in a new adventuring life. 


Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Performance skill and the Gladiatorial 
Lore skill. You gain the Impressive Performance skill feat. 


GUARD BACKGROUND 


You served in the guard, out of either patriotism or the need for 
coin. Either way, you know how to get a difficult suspect to talk. 
However you left the guard, you might think of adventuring as 
a way to use your skills on a wider stage. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Intimidation skill and the Legal Lore or 
Warfare Lore skill. You gain the Quick Coercion skill feat. 


HERBALIST BACKGROUND 


As a formally trained apothecary or a rural practitioner of folk 
medicine, you learned the healing properties of various herbs. 
You're adept at collecting the right natural cures in all sorts of 
environments and preparing them properly. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Nature skill and the Herbalism Lore 
skill. You gain the Natural Medicine skill feat. 


HERMIT BACKGROUND 


In an isolated place-like a cave, remote oasis, or secluded 
mansion—you lived a life of solitude. Adventuring might 
represent your first foray out among other people in some time. 
This might be a welcome reprieve from solitude or an unwanted 
change, but in either case, you're likely still rough around 
the edges. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or 
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Nature or Occultism skill, plus a Lore 
skill related to the terrain you lived in as a hermit (such as Cave 
Lore or Desert Lore). You gain the Dubious Knowledge skill feat. 


HUNTER BACKGROUND 


You stalked and took down animals and other creatures of 
the wild. Skinning animals, harvesting their flesh, and cooking 
them were also part of your training, all of which can give you 
useful resources while you adventure. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Survival skill and the Tanning Lore 
skill. You gain the Survey Wildlife skill feat. 


LABORER BACKGROUND 


You've spent years performing arduous physical labor. It was 
a difficult life, but you somehow survived. You may have 
embraced adventuring as an easier method to make your 
way in the world, or you might adventure under someone 
else's command. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost. 


You're trained in the Athletics skill and the Labor Lore skill. 
You gain the Hefty Hauler skill feat. 


MARTIAL DISCIPLE BACKGROUND 
You dedicated yourself to intense training and rigorous 
study to become a great warrior. The school you attended 
might have been a traditionalist monastery, an elite 
military academy, or the local branch of a prestigious 
mercenary organization. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in your choice of the Acrobatics or Athletics 
skill. You gain a skill feat: Cat Fall if you chose Acrobatics or 
Quick Jump if you chose Athletics. You're also trained in the 
Warfare Lore skill. 


MERCHANT BACKGROUND 
In a dusty shop, market stall, or merchant caravan, you 
bartered wares for coin and trade goods. The skills you picked 
up still apply in the adventuring life, in which a good deal on a 
suit of armor could prevent your death. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or 
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Mercantile 
Lore skill. You gain the Bargain Hunter skill feat. 


MINER BACKGROUND 
You earned a living wrenching precious minerals from the 
lightless depths of the earth. Adventuring might have seemed 
lucrative or glamorous compared to this backbreaking labor— 
and if you have to head back underground, this time you plan 
to do so armed with a real weapon instead of a miner's pick. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Survival skill and the Mining 
Lore skill. You gain the Terrain Expertise skill feat with 
underground terrain. 


NOBLE BACKGROUND 


Tothe common folk, the life of a noble seems 
one of idyllic luxury, but growing up 


gentry, you know the reality: a noble's 
lot is obligation and intrigue. Whether 
you seek to escape your duties by 
adventuring or to better your station, 
you have traded silks and pageantry for 
an adventurer' life. 

Choose two ability boosts. One 
must be to Intelligence or Charisma, 
and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Society 
skill and your choice of the 
Genealogy Lore or Heraldry Lore 
skill. You gain the Courtly Graces 
skill feat. 


NOMAD BACKGROUND 
Traveling far and wide, you picked up basic tactics for 
surviving on the road and in unknown lands, getting by with 
few supplies and even fewer comforts. As an adventurer, you 
travel still, often into even more dangerous places. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Survival skill and a Lore skill related 
to one terrain you traveled in (such as Desert Lore or Swamp 
Lore). You gain the Assurance skill feat with Survival. 


PRISONER BACKGROUND 
You might have been imprisoned for crimes (whether you were 
guilty or not), or enslaved for some part of your upbringing. 
In your adventuring life, you take full advantage of your 
newfound freedom. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Stealth skill and the Underworld Lore 
skill. You gain the Experienced Smuggler skill feat. 


SAILOR BACKGROUND 
You heard the call of the sea from a young age. Perhaps you 
signed onto a merchant's vessel, joined the navy, or even fell 
in with a crew of pirates and scalawags. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Athletics skill and the Sailing Lore skill. 
You gain the Underwater Marauder skill feat. 


SCHOLAR BACKGROUND 


You have a knack for learning, and sequestered yourself 
from the outside world to learn all you could. You read 


ANCESTRIES & 


BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES . 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
; SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


ACTOR EA, 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 
G. 


* 


about so many wondrous places and things in your books, 
and always dreamed about one day seeing the real things. 
Eventually, that curiosity led you to leave your studies and 
become an adventurer. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in your choice of the Arcana, Nature, 
Occultism, or Religion skill, and gain the Assurance skill 
feat in your chosen skill. You're also trained in the Academia 
Lore skill. 


SCOUT BACKGROUND 
You called the wilderness home as you found trails and guided 
travelers. Your wanderlust could have called you to the 
adventuring life, or perhaps you served as a scout for soldiers 
and found you liked battle. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Survival skill and a Lore skill related 
to one terrain you scouted in (such as Forest Lore or Cavern 
Lore). You gain the Forager skill feat. 


STREET URCHIN BACKGROUND 
You eked out a living by picking pockets on the streets of 
a major city, never knowing where you'd find your next 
meal. While some folk adventure for the glory, you do so 
to survive. 


Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in Thievery and a Lore skill for the city you 
lived in as a street urchin (such as Absalom Lore or Magnimar 
Lore). You gain the Pickpocket skill feat. 


TINKER BACKGROUND 
Creating all sorts of minor inventions scratches your itch for 
problem-solving. Your engineering skills take a particularly 
creative bent, and no one know what you'll come up with next. 
It might be a genius device with tremendous potential... or it 
might explode. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Crafting skill and the Engineering Lore 
skill. You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat. 


WARRIOR BACKGROUND 
In your younger days, you waded into battle as a mercenary, 
a warrior defending a nomadic people, or a member of a 
militia or army. You might have wanted to break out from 
the regimented structure of these forces, or you could have 
always been as independent a warrior as you are now. 

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or 
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost. 

You're trained in the Intimidation skill and the Warfare Lore 
skill. You gain the Intimidating Glare skill feat. 


LANGUAGES 


The people of the Inner Sea region speak dozens of different languages, along with 
hundreds of dialects and regional variations. While a character can generally get by 
with Taldane, also known as Common, knowing another language is vital in some 
regions. Being able to speak these tongues can help you with negotiation, spying 
on enemies, or just conducting simple commerce. Languages also afford you the 
chance to contextualize your character in the world and give meaning to your other 


character choices. 


Your ancestry entry states which languages you know at 
1st level. Typically, this means you can both speak and read 
these languages. Having a positive Intelligence modifier 
grants a number of additional languages equal to your 
Intelligence modifier. You can choose these languages 
from the list presented in your character’s ancestry entry 
and from those available from your region or ethnicity. 
Ask your GM if there’s a language you want to select that 
isn’t on these lists. If your Intelligence changes later on, 
you adjust your number of languages accordingly. 

The languages presented here are grouped according to 
how common they are throughout the Inner Sea region. 
Languages that are common are regularly encountered in 
most places, even among those who aren’t native speakers. 
Languages that are uncommon (see Table 2-2 and Regional 
Languages) are most frequently spoken by native speakers, 
but they are also spoken by certain scholars and others 
interested in the associated cultures. 

Druidic is a secret language, and is available only to 
characters who are druids. In fact, druids are prohibited 
from teaching the language to non-druids (described 
further in Anathema on page 130). 

It is possible for your character to learn languages later 
in their adventuring career. Selecting the Multilingual feat, 
for example, grants a character two new languages chosen 
from those listed in Table 2-1: Common Languages and 
Table 2-2: Uncommon Languages. Other abilities and 
effects might grant access to common or uncommon 
languages, as detailed in their descriptions. 


TABLE 2-1: COMMON LANGUAGES 


Common Humans, dwarves, elves, halflings, and other 
common ancestries 

Draconic Dragons, reptilian humanoids 

Dwarven Dwarves 

Elven Elves, half-elves 

Gnomish Gnomes 

Goblin Goblins, hobgoblins, bugbears 

Halfling Halflings 

Jotun Giants, ogres, trolls, ettins, cyclopes 

Orcish Orcs, half-orcs 

Sylvan Fey, centaurs, plant and fungus creatures 


Undercommon Drow, duergars, xulgaths 


TABLE 2-2: UNCOMMON LANGUAGES 


Abyssal Demons 

Aklo Deros, evil fey, otherworldly monsters 
Aquan Aquatic creatures, water elemental creatures 
Auran Air elemental creatures, flying creatures 
Celestial Angels 

Gnoll Gnolls 

Ignan Fire elemental creatures 

Infernal Devils 

Necril Ghouls, intelligent undead 
Shadowtongue  Nidalese, Shadow Plane creatures 
Terran Earth elemental creatures 


TABLE 2-3: SECRET LANGUAGE 


Druidic Druids 


REGIONAL LANGUAGES 
Regional languages depend on the game world you’re 
playing in. Chapter 8: The Age of Lost Omens lists the 
regional languages of the Pathfinder world and where 
they're spoken (page 432). These languages are uncommon. 
Most characters learn the Common language. This is 
the most widely used language in the region where the 
campaign takes place. In the Inner Sea region of Golarion, 
the Common tongue is Taldane, for example. Characters 
with Common might face a language barrier if they travel 
somewhere with a different Common language. 


SIGN LANGUAGE 

The language entry for most characters lists languages they 
use to communicate in spoken words. However, you might 
know the signed languages associated with the languages 
you know, or how to read lips. You can learn these by taking 
the Sign Language or Read Lips skill feats, or both. If you are 
creating a character who is deaf, hard of hearing, or unable 
to speak, discuss with your GM whether it makes sense for 
your character to know sign languages or lip reading. If so, 
your GM might allow you to select one of these feats for 
free (even if you don't meet the prerequisites) to represent 
your character concept. 


ANCESTRIES 8 
BACKGROUNDS 


| THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
= GAME 


t AFTING 
8 TREASURE 


CHAPTER 3: CLASSES 


Just as your character’s ancestry plays a key role in expressing their identity and worldview, 
their class indicates the training they have and will improve upon as an adventurer. 


Choosing your character’s class is perhaps the most important decision you will make 
for them. Groups of players often create characters whose skills and abilities complement 
each other mechanically—for example, ensuring your party includes a healer, a combat- 


oriented character, a stealthy character, and someone with command over magic—so you 


may wish to discuss options with your group before deciding. 


The rules within each class allow you to bring a wealth 
of character concepts to life. Perhaps you want to create 
a brilliant but scatterbrained alchemist who can rattle off 
complex formulas for alchemical items but has trouble 
remembering his best friend’s birthday. Or perhaps you 
want your character to be a muscle-bound swordswoman 
who becomes as immovable as a mountain when she 
hoists a shield. Maybe they'll be a hot-tempered sorcerer 
whose gesticulating fingers pulse with light from an angelic 
ancestor. The choices you make for your character within 
their class—such as a cleric’s choice of deity, a fighter’s 
choice of weapon, or a sorcerer’s bloodline—bring these 
visions to life within the context of the rules and the world. 

The entries on the pages that follow describe the 12 core 

classes in Pathfinder. Each entry contains the information 
you need to play a character of that class, as well as to 
advance them from their humble beginnings at 1st level to 
the dizzying heights of power at 20th level. In addition to 
the class entries, you might need to reference the following 
sections, which detail additional character options and 
how to advance your character in level. 

* Leveling Up on page 31 tells you how to make 
your character stronger when you get enough 
Experience Points to reach a new level. 

* Animal Companions and Familiars on page 214 
provides rules to create an animal companion 
or a familiar to share your adventures with. You 
must have a class feature or feat that grants you a 
companion or familiar to use these rules. 

* Archetypes on page 219 gives you thematic 
options that allow you to further customize your 
character’s abilities. Though these rules are not 
recommended for beginners, the archetypes in this 
book allow you to gain abilities from other classes 
starting at 2nd level. 


READING CLASS ENTRIES 

Every class entry includes information about typical 
members of the class, plus suggestions for roleplaying 
characters of that class and playing these characters in the 
game’s various modes. Each class provides your character 
with an ability boost to a key ability score; a number of 
Hit Points they receive at each level; proficiency ranks for 


various abilities, equipment, and skills; special abilities 
from their class features; and more. Your character’s class 
entry also provides the information needed when they 
gain levels, so it will be a vital reference throughout the 
course of your campaign. 


PLAYING THE CLASS 


The first section of each class describes the interests and 
tendencies typical of that class, as well as information 
on how others view them. This can help inspire you 
as you determine your character’s actions and define 
their personality, but you aren’t obligated to play your 
character as this section describes. 


KEY ABILITY 


This is the ability score that a member of your class cares 
about the most. Many of your most useful and powerful 
abilities are tied to this ability in some way. 

For instance, this is the ability score you'll use to 
determine the Difficulty Class (DC) associated with your 
character’s class features and feats. This is called your 
class DC. If your character is a member of a spellcasting 
class, this key ability is used to calculate spell DCs and 
similar values. 

Most classes are associated with one key ability score, 
but some allow you to choose from two options. For 
instance, if you’re a fighter, you can choose either Strength 
or Dexterity as your key ability. A fighter who chooses 
Strength will excel in hand-to-hand combat, while those 
who choose Dexterity prefer ranged or finesse weapons. 

Additionally, when you choose your character’s class, 
they gain an ability boost to their key ability score, 
increasing that ability score by 2. For more about ability 
boosts, see page 20. 


HIT POINTS 


This section tells you how many Hit Points your 
character gains from their class at each level. To 
determine your character’s starting Hit Points, add 
together the Hit Points they got when you chose their 
ancestry and the amount listed in this entry, which 
equals your Constitution modifier plus a fixed number. 
Classes that intend for characters to rush into battle 
with weapons bared gain a higher number of Hit Points 


LASSES 


- 


—— — 
i E CORE RULEBOOK < 
: iai a ie os ihr = d Ud 


each level, while those for characters who cast spells or 
engage in trickery gain fewer. 

Each time your character gains a level, they increase their 
maximum Hit Points by the amount listed in this entry. 
For more about calculating your character's Constitution 
modifier and determining their Hit Points, see page 26. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


When you choose your character's class, they gain a set of 
initial proficiencies. Proficiencies measure your character's 
ability to perform tasks, use abilities, and succeed at checks. 
Proficiency ranks range from trained to legendary. For 
instance, a character who is trained with a longbow can use it 
effectively, while a person who is legendary with the weapon 
might be able to split an arrow from 100 paces away! 

Each class entry specifies your characters initial 
proficiency rank in Perception, saving throws, attacks, 
defenses, and either spells or class DC. You gain the 
trained proficiency rank in several skills—the exact 
number depends on your class, and some classes specify 
certain additional skills that you're trained in. If your class 
would make you trained in a skill you're already trained in 
(typically due to your background), you can select another 
skill to become trained in. 

A proficiency rank can unlock various feats and class 
features, and it also helps determine the modifier for any 
check you roll or DC you calculate related to that statistic. 
If your character is trained in Perception, a saving throw, 
or another statistic, they gain a proficiency bonus equal 
to their level + 2, while if they have expert proficiency, 
they gain a proficiency bonus equal to their level + 4. For 
more about proficiency ranks, see page 13. 

Spellcasting classes grant a proficiency rank for spell 
attacks and DCs, which are further detailed in each 
class’s entry. 

If something isn’t listed in your character’s class entry, 
their proficiency rank in that statistic is untrained unless 
they gain training from another source. If your character 
is untrained in something, you add a proficiency bonus of 
+0 when attempting a check or calculating a DC related 
to that statistic. 


ADVANCEMENT TABLE 


This table summarizes the feats, skill increases, ability boosts, 
and other benefits your character gains as they advance in 
level. The first column of the class table indicates a level, and 
the second column lists each feature your character receives 
when they reach that level. The 1st-level entry includes a 
reminder to select your ancestry and background. 


CLASS FEATURES 


This section presents all the abilities the class grants 
your character. An ability gained at a higher level lists 
the required level next to the ability’s name. All classes 
include the class features detailed below, and each class 
also gets special class features specific to it. Many class 


features require you to choose between options. Unless 
the specific ability states otherwise, such decisions can’t be 
changed without retraining (as explained on page 481). 


Crass Feats 

This section specifies the levels at which your character 
gains class feats—special feats that only members of that 
class can access. Class feats are granted beginning at 1st 
or 2nd level, depending on the class. Specific class feats 
are detailed at the end of each class entry. 


SKILL FEATS 

This section specifies the levels at which your character 
gains feats with the skill trait, called skill feats. Skill 
feats can be found in Chapter 5: Feats, beginning on 
page 254. At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, most 
classes gain a skill feat, though rogues gain them earlier 
and more often. Your character must be trained in the 
corresponding skill to take a skill feat. 


GENERAL FEATS 

This section specifies the levels at which your character 
gains general feats. Most classes grant a general feat at 
3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter. At each of these 
levels, you can select any general feat (including skill 
feats) as long as your character qualifies for it. More 
information can be found in Chapter 5: Feats (page 254). 


SKILL INCREASES 

This section specifies the levels at which your character 
can increase their proficiency rank in a skill. At 3rd level 
and every 2 levels thereafter, most classes grant a skill 
increase, though rogues gain them earlier and more often. 
Your character can use a skill increase to either become 
trained in one skill in which they're untrained or become 
an expert in one skill in which they're already trained. 

If your character is at least 7th level, they can use a skill 
increase to become a master of a skill in which they're 
already an expert. If they're at least 15th level, they can 
use an increase to become legendary in a skill of which 
they're already a master. 


AaiLiry Boosts 

At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, your character 
boosts four different ability scores. Your character can 
use these ability boosts to increase their ability scores 
above 18. Boosting an ability score increases it by 1 if 
it's already 18 or above, or by 2 if it starts out below 18. 
For more about ability boosts and applying them during 
character creation, see page 20. 


Ancestry FEATS 

This section serves as a reminder of the ancestry feats 
your character gains at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels. 
Ancestry feats are detailed in each ancestry entry in 
Chapter 2, which begins on page 32. 


s ALCHEMIST PAGE 70 
The alchemist uses their skill at crafting 
to create alchemical items—such as 
bombs, elixirs, and poisons—that they 
use to defeat foes and aid allies. Smart 

and resourceful, an alchemist often has 
just the right tool for the job and esoteric 
knowledge to help their friends get out of a jam. 


BARBARIAN PAGE 82 
The barbarian is a fearsome embodiment 
of rage, focusing the deadly power 
of their anger against anyone who 
stands in their way. A barbarian is 

quick to enter battle and, once their fury 

has been unleashed, is immensely strong, 
often unpredictable, and nearly unstoppable. 


3 AS, ; 


PAGE 94 

An artist and a scholar, the bard uses 
performance and esoteric learning to 

f bolster their companions and foil their 

- enemies. Sometimes sneaky and quite 
often charming, the bard adventures 

with pizzazz and talent backed up by 

an impressive repertoire of occult magic. 


PAGE 104 


(Om CHAMPION 
/ 4 A defender of good who straps on 


armor and wields a righteous weapon, 

the champion protects the innocent 

and vanquishes evil. Steadfast in their 

beliefs, and devoted to both a deity and 

an aspect of good, they follow a strict code 

as they fight to make the world a better place. 


^ CLERIC PAGE 116 
The cleric is dedicated to the 
worship of a single deity and draws 

J divine magic from this devotion. 


v / Clerics can be vastly different 
depending on who they worship, and 
whether they're cloistered clerics who 

pursue one of their deitys domains or war 
priests who serve as the sword arm of their god. 
"IN DRUID PAGE 128 

The druid walks the wild, primordial 
places of the world without fear, 
harnessing the primal magic of nature 

and controlling it with calm purpose. 

A devotee of the wilderness, the druid 


finds nourishment in its power, allies 
among its creatures, and strength in its fury. 


NI Stella: E; i AEE moh 


P CLASSES 


iboe amme 


à FIGHTER PAGE 140 

à With calculated daring and fearless 
determination, the fighter tracks down 

and confronts their enemies while 
defending allies from harm. A master 

of the battlefield, the fighter is quick to 
exploit opportunities and strike any who 
stumble within reach of their sword or bow. 


*X MONK PAGE 154 
The monk seeks perfection in all things, 
and that includes transforming their 
body into the perfect weapon. They 
can be walking with calm purpose 

and contemplating the subtleties 
of existence in one minute and then 
transform into a blur of deadly blows inthe next. 


bw PAGE 166 
Resourceful and cunning, the ranger 
is a hunter, tracker, and warrior who 
preserves the natural world and 
protects civilization from its ravages. 

Whether they use a bow, crossbow, 
a pair of weapons, or snares, the ranger 
is a fearsome enemy and great ally in the wild. 


X ROGUE PAGE 178 

Cunning and quick, the rogue brings 

A skill and expertise few of their comrades 

PR RQ J can match. In battle, they excel at 

V SS” J sneak attacks and ambushes. Their 
i, E" racket gives them the tools they need 
to get the job done, and their wide array of 

skill choices lets them specialize as they see fit. 


X SORCERER PAGE 190 

The intense magic the sorcerer 

commands comes from neither 

A AZ. study nor worship-it comes from 
A SS their blood. Their magical abilities 
depend on whether they have the 

blood of dragons, angels, fey, aberrant 

creatures, or some other being flowing 

through their veins and powering their spells. 


PAGE 202 

The wizard is the arcane master of 
spellcasting, plucking incredible power 

from reality through complicated 

spell formulas. They stride with 
confidence, without a need for armor 

or weapons, enacting their will upon the 
world and bringing woe upon their enemies. 


BACKGROU 


| 


CLASSES 


[ 
i 


> 


EQUIPMENT 


$ SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 


LOST OMENS 


id 


~ PLAYING THE 


GAME 


CRAFTING 
TREASURE 


(PATHFINDER) cone Ruiesoox } 
L^ ay 


9 u 


bh ALCHEMIST 


You are fearless in the face of risk, hurling explosive or toxic creations at your foes. Your 
unique path toward greatness is lined with alchemical brews that push your mind and body 


to their limits. 


KEY ABILITY 
INTELLIGENCE 


HIT POINTS 


8 plus your Constitution Modifier 

You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 
level thereafter. 


At ist level, your class gives you 
an ability boost to Intelligence. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You lob bombs at your foes, harry your enemies, and support the rest of your party 
with potent elixirs. At higher levels, your mutagens warp your body into a resilient 
and powerful weapon. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


You provide knowledge and experience about alchemical items and related secrets, 
such as poisons and diseases. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


You keep an eye out for trouble with your bombs at the ready, while giving advice 
on all things alchemical and mysterious. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You experiment in an alchemical lab, brewing elixirs, making bombs, and furthering 
your alchemical knowledge. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Enjoy tinkering with strange formulas and alchemical reagents, often with a 
single-minded dedication and recklessness that gives others pause. 

* Get a kick out of wreaking havoc with the alchemical concoctions you've made, 
and enjoy watching things burn, dissolve, freeze, and jolt. 

* Endlessly experiment to discover new, more potent alchemical tools. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Think you're some kind of sorcerer or an eccentric wizard and don't understand 
that you don’t cast spells; spellcasters who clumsily dabble in alchemy only 
heighten this misconception. 

* Don’t understand your zeal for alchemy, creativity, and invention. 

* Assume that if you haven't caused a catastrophe with your experimentations, you 
inevitably will. 


There's no sight more beautiful to you than a strange brew bubbling in a beaker, 
and you consume your ingenious elixirs with abandon. You're fascinated by 
uncovering the secrets of science and the natural world, and you're constantly 
experimenting in your lab or on the go witb inventive concoctions for every eventuality. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


PERCEPTION 


Trained in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 
Expert in Fortitude 
Expert in Reflex 
Trained in Will 


SKILLS 


Trained in Crafting 

Trained in a number of 
additional skills equal to 3 plus 
your Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 
Trained in simple weapons 


Trained in alchemical bombs 
Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Trained in light armor 
Trained in medium armor 
Trained in unarmored defense 


CLASS DE 


Trained in alchemist class DC 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


plea ne mco 


ne DINE em e E T EET 
DATHFINI ER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
e LE — er — TM rae a o iil 


TABLE 3-1: ALCHEMIST ADVANCEMENT 


Your 
Level Class Features 


1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, 
alchemy, formula book, research field, alchemist feat 

2 Alchemist feat, skill feat 

3 General feat, skill increase 

4 Alchemist feat, skill feat 

5 Ability boosts, ancestry feat, field discovery, 
powerful alchemy, skill increase 

6 Alchemist feat, skill feat 

7 Alchemical weapon expertise, general feat, iron will, 
perpetual infusions, skill increase 

8 Alchemist feat, skill feat 

9 Alchemical expertise, alertness, ancestry feat, double 
brew, skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, alchemist feat, skill feat 

11 General feat, juggernaut, perpetual potency, skill 
increase 

12 Alchemist feat, skill feat 

13 Ancestry feat, greater field discovery, medium armor 
expertise, skill increase, weapon specialization 

14 Alchemist feat, skill feat 

15 Ability boosts, alchemical alacrity, evasion, general 
feat, skill increase 

16 Alchemist feat, skill feat 

17 Alchemical mastery, ancestry feat, perpetual 
perfection, skill increase 

18 Alchemist feat, skill feat 

19 General feat, medium armor mastery, skill increase 

20 Ability boosts, alchemist feat, skill feat 


CLASS FEATURES 

You gain these abilities as an alchemist. Abilities gained 
at higher levels list the levels at which you gain them next 
to the features’ names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st 
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that 
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are 
noted at the start of this class. 


ALCHEMY 


You understand the complex interactions of natural and 
unnatural substances and can concoct alchemical items to 
meet your needs. You can do this using normal reagents and 
the Craft activity, or you can use special infused reagents 
that allow you to craft temporary items quickly and at no 
cost. Over time, you can create more and more alchemical 
items for free, and since each of them becomes more and 


more powerful, you advance in power dramatically, leaving 
behind those who don't understand your strange science. 

You gain the Alchemical Crafting feat (page 258), 
even if you don't meet that feat's prerequisites, and you 
gain the four common Ist-level alchemical formulas 
granted by that feat. The catalog of alchemical items 
begins on page 543. You can use this feat to create 
alchemical items as long as you have the items’ formulas 
in your formula book. 


InFuseo REAGENTS 

You infuse reagents with your own alchemical essence, 
allowing you to create alchemical items at no cost. Each 
day during your daily preparations, you gain a number 
of batches of infused reagents equal to your level + your 
Intelligence modifier. You can use these reagents for either 
advanced alchemy or Quick Alchemy, described below. 
Together, these infused reagents have light Bulk. 

As soon as you make your next daily preparations, your 
infused reagents from the previous day’s preparations are 
instantly destroyed, and nonpermanent effects of your 
previous day’s infused items immediately end. While infused 
reagents are physical objects, they can’t be duplicated, 
preserved, or created in any way other than your daily 
preparations. Any such artificial reagents lack the infusion 
and are useless for advanced alchemy or Quick Alchemy. 


AnvaNcED ALCHEMY 

During your daily preparations, after producing new 
infused reagents, you can spend batches of those infused 
reagents to create infused alchemical items. You don’t need 
to attempt a Crafting check to do this, and you ignore both 
the number of days typically required to create the items 
and any alchemical reagent requirements. Your advanced 
alchemy level is equal to your level. For each batch of 
infused reagents you spend, choose an alchemical item of 
your advanced alchemy level or lower that’s in your formula 
book, and make a batch of two of that item. These items 
have the infused trait and remain potent for 24 hours or 
until your next daily preparations, whichever comes first. 


Quick ALCHEMY 

If you need a specific alchemical item on the fly, you can 
use your infused reagents to quickly create it with the 
Quick Alchemy action. 


QUICK ALCHEMY «> 

Cost 1 batch of infused reagents 

Requirements You have the formula for the alchemical item 
you're creating, and you're either holding or wearing 
alchemist's tools (page 287). 

You swiftly mix up a short-lived alchemical item to use at a 

moment's notice. You create a single alchemical consumable 

item of your advanced alchemy level or lower that's in your 

formula book without having to spend the normal monetary 


cost in alchemical reagents or needing to attempt a Crafting 
check. This item has the infused trait, but it remains potent 
only until the start of your next turn. 


FORMULA BOOK 


An alchemist keeps meticulous formulas for every item 
they can create. You start with a standard formula book 
worth 10 sp or less (as detailed on page 290) for free. The 
formula book contains the formulas for two common 1st- 
level alchemical items of your choice, in addition to those 
you gained from Alchemical Crafting and your research 
field. The catalog of alchemical items begins on page 543. 

Each time you gain a level, you can add the formulas 
for two common alchemical items to your formula book. 
These new formulas can be for any level of item you can 
create. You learn these formulas automatically, but 
it's also possible to find or buy additional formulas in 
settlements or from other alchemists, or to invent them 
with the Inventor feat (page 262). 


RESEARCH FIELD 


Your inquiries into the alchemical nature of the universe 
have led you to focus on a particular field of research. 
You might have a degree from a scientific institute, 
correspond with other researchers in your field, or work 
as a genius loner. Choose a field of research. 

Your research field adds a number of formulas to your 
formula book; these are your signature items. When using 
a batch of infused reagents to create your signature 
items using advanced alchemy, you create three 
items instead of two. Each time you gain a level, 
you can swap one of your signature items with 
another formula in your formula book. This 
new signature item must be on your research 
field’s list of possible signature items. 

The research fields in this book are as follows. 


Bomeer 

You specialize in explosions and other violent 
alchemical reactions. You start with the formulas 
for two common Ist-level alchemical bombs, in 
addition to your other formulas. y 

When throwing an alchemical bomb with the 

splash trait, you can deal splash damage to only 
your primary target instead of the usual splash area. 


CHIRURGEON 
You concentrate on healing others with alchemy. You 
start with the formulas for two common 1st-level 
alchemical elixirs with the healing trait (like lesser 
antidote, lesser antiplague, or minor elixir of , 4 
life), in addition to your other formulas. ANT 
You can use your proficiency rank in Crafting 
for anything that requires a proficiency rank in Medicine 
(such as prerequisites), and use your Crafting modifier in 
place of your Medicine modifier for all Medicine checks. 


MUTAGENIST 
You focus on bizarre mutagenic transformations that 
sacrifice one aspect of a creature's physical or psychological 
being in order to strengthen another. You start with the 
formulas for two common 1st-level alchemical mutagens, 
in addition to your other formulas. 

You also gain the following free action. 


MUTAGENIC FLASHBACK <> 

Frequency once per day 

You experience a brief resurgence of a mutagen. Choose one 
mutagen you've consumed since your last daily preparations. 
You gain the effects of that mutagen for 1 minute. 


ALCHEMIST FEATS 


At 1st level and every even-numbered level 
thereafter, you gain an alchemist class feat. 


These begin on page 76. 


SKILL FEATS eND 


At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, 
you gain a skill feat. Skill feats 


SN 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 
FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 


| 
ü 
H 
[| 
b 


SPELLS 


CSREES 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


: 
é 

GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 


PATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


SAMPLE ALCHEMIST 


— 


CHIRURGEON 


You use alchemy for medicinal purposes, healing 
and protecting others across the lands. 


-Fh y 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Intelligence and Wisdom. Constitution 
increases your survivability, and Dexterity helps you 
hit with ranged attacks when violence is necessary. 


SKILLS 
Crafting, Diplomacy, Medicine, Nature, Occultism, 
Religion, Society, Survival 


RESEARCH FIELD 


Chirurgeon 


STARTING FEAT 


Alchemical Savant 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Poison Resistance (2nd), Efficient Alchemy (4th), 
Combine Elixirs (6th), Merciful Elixir (10th), Greater 
Merciful Elixir (14th), Miracle Worker (18th), Craft 
Philosopher's Stone (20th) 


are in Chapter 5 and have the skill trait. You must be trained 
or better in the corresponding skill to select a skill feat. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your 
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained 
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in 
which you’re already trained to expert. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase 
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you're 
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to 
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in 
which you’re already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At Sth level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 
if it starts out below 18. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry's entry in Chapter 2. 


FIELD DISCOVERY STH 


You learn a special discovery depending on your field. 

Bomber: When using advanced alchemy to make 
bombs during your daily preparations, you can use a 
batch of reagents to create any three bombs instead of 
just two of the same bomb. 

Chirurgeon: When using advanced alchemy to make 
elixirs with the healing trait during your daily preparations, 
you can create three elixirs with each batch of reagents 
instead of two. 

Mutagenist: When using advanced alchemy to make 
mutagens during your daily preparations, you can use a 
batch of reagents to create any three mutagens instead of 
just two of the same mutagen. 


POWERFUL ALCHEMY STH 


Alchemical items you create on the fly are particularly 
potent. When you use Quick Alchemy to create an 
infused alchemical item that allows a saving throw, you 
can change its DC to your class DC. 


ALCHEMICAL WEAPON EXPERTISE 7TH 


You’ve trained to more effectively wield the weapons 
you find in your lab. Your proficiency ranks for simple 


weapons, alchemical bombs, and unarmed attacks 
increase to expert. 


IRON WILL 7TH 


Your mental defenses are an iron fortress. Your proficiency 
rank for Will saves increases to expert. 


PERPETUAL INFUSIDNS 7TH 


You have learned how to create perpetual alchemical 
infusions that can provide a near-infinite supply of certain 
simple items. You gain the ability to create two 1st-level 
alchemical items using Quick Alchemy without spending a 
batch of infused reagents. The items you can select depend 
on your research field and must be in your formula book. 
Each time you gain a level, you can swap any number 
of your perpetual infusions with other eligible infusions. 

Bomber: Choose two 1st-level bombs. 

Chirurgeon: Choose two 1st-level elixirs with the healing 
trait. If a creature heals Hit Points from a perpetual infusion, 
that creature is temporarily immune to healing Hit Points 
from subsequent perpetual infusions for 10 minutes (but 
not immune to any other effects of those infusions). 

Mutagenist: Choose two 1st-level mutagens. 


ALCHEMICAL EXPERTISE STH 


Constant practice has increased the effectiveness of your 
concoctions. Your proficiency rank for your alchemist 
class DC increases to expert. 


ALERTNESS STH 


You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency 
rank for Perception increases to expert. 


DOUBLE BREW STH 


You know your formulas so well that you can concoct 
two items at once. When using the Quick Alchemy action, 
instead of spending one batch of infused reagents to create 
a single item, you can spend up to two batches of infused 
reagents to make up to two alchemical items as described 
in that action. These items do not have to be the same. 


JUGGERNAUT ATH 


Your body has become accustomed to physical hazards and 
resistant to pathogens and ailments. Your proficiency rank 
for Fortitude saves increases to master. When you roll a 
success on a Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead. 


PERPETUAL POTENCY ATH 


Your perpetual infusions improve, allowing you to use 
Quick Alchemy to create more powerful items with no 
cost. The items you can select depend on your research 
field and must be in your formula book. 

Bomber: Choose two 3rd-level or lower bombs. 

Chirurgeon: Choose two 6th-level or lower elixirs with 
the healing trait. 

Mutagenist: Choose two 3rd-level or lower mutagens. 


KEY TERMS 
You'll see the following key terms in many alchemist 
abilities. 

Additive: Feats with the additive trait allow you 
to spend actions to add special substances to bombs 
or elixirs. You can add only one additive to a single 
alchemical item, and attempting to add another spoils 
the item. You can typically use actions with the additive 
trait only when you're creating an infused alchemical 
item, and some can be used only with the Quick Alchemy 
action. The additive trait is always followed by a level, 
such as additive 2. An additive adds its level to the level 
of the alchemical item you're modifying; the result is the 
new level of the mixture. The mixture's item level must be 
no higher than your advanced alchemy level. 

Infused: You created an alchemical item with the 
infused trait using your infused reagents, and it has a 
limited time before it becomes inert. Any nonpermanent 
effects from your infused alchemical items, with the 
exception of afflictions such as slow-acting poisons, end 
when you make your daily preparations again. 


GREATER FIELD DISCOVERY 13TH 


You learn an incredible discovery that advances your 
understanding of your field. 

Bomber: You can increase the splash on your bombs 
to damage creatures within 10 feet, or 15 feet if you have 
Expanded Splash. 

Chirurgeon: When you use Quick Alchemy to create 
any type of elixir of life, the creature drinking the 
elixir gains the maximum Hit Points possible for that 
elixir, instead of rolling to determine the number of Hit 
Points regained. 

Mutagenist: If you imbibe another mutagen while you 
are under the effects of a mutagen, you can gain the 
benefits and the drawbacks of both mutagens at once, 
despite the fact that they both have the polymorph 
trait and would not normally function together. If you 
come under the effects of any further mutagens while 
benefiting from two mutagens, you lose the benefit 
of one of the former mutagens of your choice, while 
retaining the drawbacks of all the mutagens. If you 
are under the effects of two mutagens and you come 
under the effect of a non-mutagen polymorph effect, 
you lose the benefits of the mutagens while retaining the 
drawbacks of both. 


MEDIUM ARMOR EXPERTISE 13TH 


You've learned to defend yourself better against attacks. 
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor, 
and unarmored defense increase to expert. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION I3TH 


You've learned how to inflict greater injuries with the 
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage 


| CLASSES 


> 


EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


ey 
THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
GAME 


4 


" I 
a 


GAME 
MASTERING 


1 


mi 


B TREASURE 


ALCHEMIST FEATS 

If you need to look up an 
alchemist feat by name instead 
of by level, use this table. 


Feat Level 
Alchemical Familiar 1 
Alchemical Savant 1 
Calculated Splash 4 
Combine Elixirs 6 
Craft Philosophers Stone 20 


Debilitating Bomb 6 
Directional Bombs 6 
Efficient Alchemy 4 
Elastic Mutagen 10 
Enduring Alchemy 4 
Eternal Elixir 16 
Expanded Splash 10 
Exploitive Bomb 16 
Extend Elixir 12 
Far Lobber 1 
Feral Mutagen 8 
Genius Mutagen 16 
Glib Mutagen 14 
Greater Debilitating Bomb 10 
Greater Merciful Elixir 14 
Improbable Elixirs 18 
Invincible Mutagen 12 
Mega Bomb 20 
Merciful Elixir 10 
Mindblank Mutagen 18 
Miracle Worker 18 
Perfect Debilitation 18 
Perfect Mutagen 20 
Persistent Mutagen 16 
Poison Resistance 2 
Potent Poisoner 10 
Quick Bomber 1 
Revivifying Mutagen 2 
Smoke Bomb 2 
Sticky Bomb 8 
True Debilitating Bomb 14 
Uncanny Bombs 12 


with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an expert. This damage 
increases to 3 if you're a master, and to 4 if you're legendary. 


ALCHEMICAL ALACRITY ISTH 


Your comfort in concocting items is such that you can create three at a time. When 
using the Quick Alchemy action, you can spend up to three batches of infused 
reagents to make up to three alchemical items as described in that action. These 
items do not have to be the same, and you automatically stow one of these new items 
as you create them. 


EVASION ISTH 


You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions, dragon’s breath, and worse. 
Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success 
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead. 


ALCHEMICAL MASTERY 17TH 


Your alchemical concoctions are incredibly effective. Your proficiency rank for your 
alchemist class DC increases to master. 


PERPETUAL PERFECTION 17TH 


You have perfected your perpetual infusions, allowing you to use Quick Alchemy to 
create even more powerful items at no cost. The items you can select depend on your 
research field and must be in your formula book. 

Bomber: Choose two 11th-level or lower bombs. 

Chirurgeon: Choose two 11th-level or lower elixirs with the healing trait. 

Mutagenist: Choose two 11th-level or lower mutagens. 


MEDIUM ARMOR MASTERY 19TH 


Your skill with light and medium armor improves, increasing your ability to avoid 
blows. Your proficiency ranks for light and medium armor, as well as for unarmed 
defense, increase to master. 


ALCHEMIST FEATS 


At every level that you gain an alchemist feat, you can select one of the following 
feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites before taking the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


ALCHEMICAL FAMILIAR FEAT 1 
You have used alchemy to create life, a simple creature formed from alchemical materials, 
reagents, and a bit of your own blood. This alchemical familiar appears to be a small creature 
of flesh and blood, though it might have some unusual or distinguishing aspects depending 
on your creative process. Like other familiars, your alchemical familiar assists you in your 
laboratory and on adventures. The familiar uses your Intelligence modifier to determine its 
Perception, Acrobatics, and Stealth modifiers (see Familiars on page 217 for more information). 


ALCHEMICAL SAVANT FEAT 1 
Prerequisites trained in Crafting 

You can identify alchemical items quickly. When using the Crafting skill to Identify Alchemy 
onan alchemical item you hold, you can do so as a single action, which has the concentrate 
and manipulate traits, instead of spending 10 minutes. If you have the formula for the item 
you are attempting to identify, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your check, and if you 
roll a critical failure, you get a failure instead. 


FAR LOBBER FEAT 1 


SMOKE BOMB € 


FEAT 2 


ALCHEMIST 


You've learned how to throw a longer distance. When you 
throw an alchemical bomb, it has a range increment of 30 feet 
instead of the usual 20 feet. 


QUICK BOMBER «> 
You keep your bombs in easy-to-reach pouches from which 
you draw without thinking. You Interact to draw a bomb, then 
Strike with it. 


BND LEVEL 


POISON RESISTANCE FEAT2 
Repeated exposure to toxic reagents has fortified your body 
against poisons of all kinds. You gain poison resistance equal 
to half your level, and you gain a *1 status bonus to saving 
throws against poisons. 


REVIVIFYING MUTAGEN 
While under the effect of a mutagen, you can metabolize that 
mutagens power to heal yourself. This uses a single action, which 
has the concentrate and manipulate traits. Once the action is 
complete, you regain 1d6 Hit Points for every 2 item levels of the 
mutagen (minimum 1d6), but the mutagen's duration immediately 
ends, even if you are under the effect of Persistent Mutagen. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 2 


ADDITIVE1 | ALCHEMIST 


Frequency once per round 
Trigger You use Quick Alchemy to craft an alchemical bomb with 
a level at least 1 lower than your advanced alchemy level. 


You cause the bomb to create a cloud of thick smoke, in addition 
to its normal effects. When thrown, the bomb creates a cloud of 
smoke in a 10-foot-radius burst. You choose which corner of the 
target's space (or the space in which the bomb lands) the cloud 
is centered on. Creatures within that area have the concealed 
condition, and all other creatures are concealed to them. The 
smoke lasts for 1 minute or until dissipated by a strong wind. 


4TH LEVEL 


CALCULATED SPLASH FEAT 4 
You have calculated all the angles to maximize a bomb's 
splash. When you throw an alchemical bomb with the splash 
trait, you can cause the bomb to deal splash damage equal 
to your Intelligence modifier (minimum 0) instead of the 
normal amount. 


EFFICIENT ALCHEMY 
Thanks to the time you've spent studying and experimenting, 
you know how to scale your formulas into larger batches that 
dont require any additional attention. When spending downtime 
to Craft alchemical items, you can produce twice as many 


FEAT 4 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 
FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


A 


PATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


SAMPLE ALCHEMIST 


- —— A ~~ 


BOMBER 


You can mix an explosive out of just about anything! 


FX eee 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Intelligence and Dexterity. Constitution helps 
you survive explosions gone wrong, and Wisdom 
prevents you from bombing the wrong target. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Arcana, Crafting, Deception, Intimidation, 
Society, Stealth, Thievery 


RESEARCH FIELD 


Bomber 


STARTING FEAT 
Quick Bomber 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 

Smoke Bomb (2nd), Calculated Splash (4th), Directional 
Bombs (6th), Sticky Bomb (8th), Expanded Splash (10th), 
Mega Bomb (20th) 


alchemical items in a single batch without spending additional 
preparatory time. For instance, if you are creating elixirs of life, 
you can craft up to eight elixirs in a single batch using downtime, 
rather than four. This does not reduce the amount of alchemical 
reagents required or other ingredients needed to craft each item, 
nor does it increase your rate of progress for days past the base 
downtime spent. This also does not change the number of items 
you can create in a batch using advanced alchemy. 


ENDURING ALCHEMY FEAT 4 
You've learned how to make your personal energy last just a 
little bit longer when quickly brewing ad hoc concoctions. When 
using Quick Alchemy to create an alchemical tool or elixir, that 
tool or elixir remains potent until the end of your next turn, 
instead of losing its potency at the start of your next turn. 


BTH LEVEL 


COMBINE ELIXIRS €» FEAT 6 
Frequency once per round 
Trigger You use Quick Alchemy to craft an alchemical item 
that has the elixir trait and is at least 2 levels lower than 
your advanced alchemy level. 
You've discovered how to mix two elixirs into a single hybrid 
concoction. You can spend 2 additional batches of infused 
reagents to add a second elixir to the one you're crafting. 
The second elixir must also be at least 2 levels lower than 
your advanced alchemy level, and the combination elixir is 
an alchemical item two levels higher than the higher of the 
two elixirs' levels. When this combination elixir is consumed, 
both the constituent elixirs take effect. For example, you can 
combine two elixirs of life to create a combined elixir that 
heals twice the normal amount, or you can combine a lesser 
darkvision elixir with a lesser eagle-eye elixir to both gain 
darkvision and find secret doors. 


DEBILITATING BOMB <> FEAT 6 
Frequency once per round 
Trigger You use Quick Alchemy to craft an alchemical 
bomb that is at least 2 levels lower than your advanced 
alchemy level. 
Your bombs impose additional effects on your enemies. 
You mix a substance into the bomb that causes one of the 
following: dazzled, deafened, flat-footed, or a -5-foot status 
penalty to Speeds. If the attack with that bomb hits, the target 
must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw or suffer that effect 
until the start of your next turn. Use your class DC for this 
saving throw (even if someone else throws the bomb). 


DIRECTIONAL BOMBS FEAT 6 


You can lob bombs with great force and a precise trajectory to 
angle the splash in a cone spraying in a single direction. When 


throwing an alchemical bomb with the splash trait, instead of 
splashing all squares adjacent to the target, you can treat the 
targets space as the first affected square of a 15-foot cone 
directed away from you, potentially allowing you to avoid 
allies and splash deeper into enemy lines. If the target takes 
up more than a single square, the target's square closest to 
you is the first affected square of the cone. 


8TH LEVEL 


FERAL MUTAGEN FEAT8 


GREATER DEBILITATING BOMB 
Prerequisites Debilitating Bomb 
You have learned enhanced techniques and alchemical 
secrets that allow you to expand the range of effects you 
can impose with your bombs. When you use Debilitating 
Bomb, add the following to the list you can choose from: 
clumsy 1, enfeebled 1, stupefied 1, or -10-foot status penalty 
to Speeds. 


MERCIFUL ELIXIR €^ 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


Your bestial mutagen brings out the beast lurking within 
you, granting you especially sharp claws and teeth as well 
as a ferocious appearance. Whenever you're affected by 
a bestial mutagen, you gain the mutagen’s item bonus to 
your Intimidation checks. In addition, your claws and jaws 
are increasingly vicious, and they gain the deadly d10 trait. 
Finally, you can increase the mutagen' penalty to AC from -1 
to -2 and, in exchange, increase the damage die size of your 
claws and jaws by one step. 


FEAT8 


| ADDITIVE? | ALCHEMIST | 

Frequency once per round 

Trigger You craft an elixir of life using Quick Alchemy, and 
that elixir is at least 2 levels lower than your advanced 
alchemy level. 


You mix a special additive into your elixir that calms the 
drinker's body and mind. The elixir of life attempts to counteract 
one fear effect or one effect imposing the paralyzed condition 
on the drinker, using the item's level and a counteract modifier 
equal to your class DC - 10. 


POTENT POISONER FEAT 10 


Trigger You use Quick Alchemy to craft an alchemical bomb, 
and that bombs level is at least 2 levels lower than your 
advanced alchemy level. 

You mix in an additive to make your bombs contents adhere 
to the target and continue to deal damage. A creature that 
takes a direct hit from one of your sticky bombs also takes 
persistent damage equal to and of the same type as the 
bombs splash damage. If the bomb already deals persistent 
damage, combine the two amounts. 


10TH LEVEL 


LASTIC MUTAGEN FEAT 10 
| ALCHEMIST | 
You can cause your body to twist and flow like the 
quicksilver within your mutagens. Whenever you are 
under the effects of a quicksilver mutagen, you can stretch 
your legs and Step up to 10 feet, and you can squish and 
compress your body, allowing you to make it through tight 
spaces as if you were one size smaller, in addition to any 
effect from Squeezing. 


EXPANDED SPLASH 


FEAT 10 


| ALCHEMIST | 


Prerequisites powerful alchemy 

By concentrating your poisons’ toxic components, you 
make them harder for victims to resist. When you craft an 
alchemical item with the poison trait by any means, the DC is 
increased by up to 4, to a maximum of your class DC. 


12TH LEVEL 


EXTEND ELIXIR FEAT 12 
Integrating your own personal energy into the elixirs you 
create causes them to affect you for longer. When you 
consume one of your alchemical items that has the elixir and 
infused traits and a duration of 1 minute or longer, that elixir's 
duration is doubled. 


INVINCIBLE MUTAGEN 


| ALCHEMIST | 

Repeated exposure to fortifying additives in mutagens makes 
your juggernaut form impervious. Whenever you're affected 
by a juggernaut mutagen, you gain resistance to all physical 
damage equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum 0). 


UNCANNY BOMBS FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


Prerequisites Far Lobber 


You can throw bombs at just the right trajectory to create 
especially large and powerful explosions. When you throw 
an alchemical bomb and that bomb has the splash trait, you 
can add your Intelligence modifier to the bomb's usual splash 
damage, and it deals splash damage to every creature within 
10 feet of the target. 


You lob bombs unerringly, despite obstructions or distance. 
When you throw an alchemical item with the bomb trait, 
its range increment increases to 60 feet, you reduce any 
circumstance bonus to the target's AC from cover by 1, and 
you automatically succeed at the flat check when targeting a 
concealed creature. 


ima 
| 
ii 


f 


m 


EQUIPMENT 
AP 


SPELLS 
t 


Pa 
N 
3 


[^ 
.. THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
"  BAME 


al 


SAMPLE ALCHEMIST 


You transform yourself and others with mutagens. 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Intelligence and Strength. Constitution helps 
you survive transformations and combat, and Wisdom 
helps keep your mind intact despite the warping. 


SKILLS 
Athletics, Arcana, Crafting, Intimidation, Occultism, 
Society, Stealth, Survival 


RESEARCH FIELD 
Mutagenist 


STARTING FEAT 


Alchemical Familiar 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 

Revivifying Mutagen (2nd), Feral Mutagen (8th), 
Invincible Mutagen (12th), Persistent Mutagen (16th), 
Perfect Mutagen (20th) 


14TH LEVEL 


GLIB MUTAGEN FEAT 14 
Your silvertongue mutagen transcends languages and 
plausibility. When affected by a silvertongue mutagen 
you have created, you ignore circumstance penalties to 
Deception, Diplomacy, Intimidation, and Performance 
checks. In addition, your words transcend linguistic barriers; 
everyone listening to you speak hears your words as if you 
were speaking in their own language (though you do not 
actually speak that language, nor does this ability allow you 
to understand any additional languages). 


GREATER MERCIFUL ELIXIR 
Prerequisites Merciful Elixir 
Your additives contain panaceas that can remedy a plethora 
of maladies. When you use Merciful Elixir, your elixir 
can instead attempt to counteract the blinded, deafened, 
sickened, or slowed condition. 


FEAT 14 


TRUE DEBILITATING BOMB 
Prerequisites Greater Debilitating Bomb 
Ever inventive, you have discovered increasingly devastating 
ways for your bombs to impede and hamper your foes. When 
you use Debilitating Bomb, add the following to the list of 
effects you can choose from: enfeebled 2, stupefied 2, or 
a -15-foot status penalty to Speeds. If you instead apply 
one of the effects listed in Debilitating Bomb, the target 
avoids the effect only if the result of its saving throw is a 
critical success. 


16TH LEVEL 


ETERNAL ELIXIR FEAT 16 
Prerequisites Extend Elixir 

Your body readily accepts and retains minor changes. When 
you drink one of your alchemical items that has the elixir and 
infused traits and a duration of 1 minute or more, you can 
make the elixir's duration indefinite. You can do so only if the 
elixirs level is half your level or lower. If you later consume 
a different elixir and make it indefinite, the effect of the 
previous indefinite elixir ends. 


EXPLOITIVE BOMB <> 

Frequency once per round 

Trigger You craft an alchemical bomb using Quick Alchemy 
that’s at least 2 levels lower than your advanced 
alchemy level. 

You mix a substance into the bomb to foil resistances. The 

bomb reduces any resistance the enemy has to its damage 

type by an amount equal to your level, but only for that attack. 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 16 


GENIUS MUTAGEN 


| ALCHEMIST | 
Specialized tweaks to your body's chemical composition 
considerably broaden the benefits you gain from cognitive 
mutagens. When you're affected by a cognitive mutagen, you 
also gain the mutagen’s item bonus to Deception, Diplomacy, 
Intimidation, Medicine, Nature, Performance, Religion, 
and Survival checks. In addition, you can communicate 
telepathically with creatures within 60 feet with whom you 
share a language. The communication is two-way once you 
establish it, so a creature you contact can also communicate 
with you. 


PERSISTENT MUTAGEN 


| ALCHEMIST | 

Prerequisites Extend Elixir 

You've trained your physical form to remain stable within 
a given altered state. Once per day, when you consume an 
alchemical item with the infused and mutagen traits, you 
can retain its effects until the next time you make your daily 
preparations instead of its normal duration. 


18TH LEVEL 


FEAT 16 


FEAT 16 


SAMPLE FORMULA BOOK 
You can choose any 1st-level common alchemical items 
for your formula book, but the list below contains a good 
selection of starter formulas. A beginner's book with these 
formulas called The Fundamentals of Alchemy has become 
popular among mainstream alchemists by staying away 
from controversial topics like mutagens, though it has 
drawn criticism from fringe alchemists for guiding fledgling 
alchemists away from more innovative experiments. 
Alchemical Item Formulas: Lesser acid flask, lesser 
alchemist's fire, lesser antidote, lesser antiplague, lesser 
cheetah's elixir, lesser elixir of life, lesser tanglefoot 
bag, lesser smokestick. 


PERFECT DEBILITATION 


m 

You have perfected the formulas for bombs that impede your 
enemies. When you use Debilitating Bomb, your target avoids 
the condition the bomb imposes only if it critically succeeds 
at its saving throw. 


20TH LEVEL 


FEAT 18 


IMPROBABLE ELIXIRS FEAT 18 


CRAFT PHILOSOPHER'S STONE FEAT 20 


L | 
Your mastery of alchemical secrets enables you to replicate 
effects most believe can be achieved only via magic. Select 
a number of potions equal to your Intelligence modifier 
(minimum 1); these potions must be of 9th level or lower. You 
gain formulas to create these potions as alchemical items with 
the elixir trait. When making these alchemical elixirs, you can 
substitute alchemical reagents for an equal value of magical 
components, and you can use alchemist's tools (for Quick 
Alchemy) or an alchemist's lab (for the Craft activity) instead 
of any other required tool kits. Other than that, the formula 
does not change. Once you've chosen the potion formulas, 
they can't be changed. 


MINDBLANK MUTAGEN 
With the right mindset, consuming a serene mutagen grants 
you special mental protections. When you're affected by a 
serene mutagen, detection, revelation, and scrying effects of 
9th level or lower detect nothing from you or your possessions 
and auras. For instance, detect magic would still detect other 
magic in the area, but not any magic on you. 


MIRACLE WORKER 

Frequency once every 10 minutes 
Your alchemical mastery can resuscitate the recently slain. 
You can administer a true elixir of life to a creature who has 
been dead for no more than 2 rounds. When you do, that 
creature is immediately returned to life with 1 Hit Point and 
becomes wounded 1. 


FEAT 18 


FEAT 18 


m 

Your research has paid off, culminating in the legendary 
philosopher's stone. You learn the formula for the philosopher's 
stone (page 554) and can add it to your formula book. 


MEGA BOMB «> FEAT 20 
Prerequisites Expanded Splash 
Requirements You are holding an infused alchemical bomb 
you crafted, with a level at least 3 lower than your advanced 
alchemy level. 
You add an incredibly powerful additive to a held bomb to 
create a mega bomb, greatly increasing its area and power. 
You use an Interact action to throw the mega bomb, rather 
than Strike, and you don't make an attack roll. The mega 
bomb affects creatures in a 30-foot-radius burst, centered 
within 60 feet of you. The bomb deals damage as if each 
creature were the primary target, with a basic Reflex save. 
On a failed save, a creature also takes any extra effects that 
affect a primary target (such as flat-footed from bottled 
lightning). While all targets in the area take splash damage 
as primary targets, there is no further splash beyond that 
area. If your next action after creating a mega bomb isn't an 
Interact action to throw it, the mega bomb denatures and 
loses all effects. 


PERFECT MUTAGEN 


| ALCHEMIST | 

You have enhanced the formulas for your mutagens, aligning 
them perfectly to your physiology. When under the effect of a 
mutagen you crafted, you do not suffer its drawback. 


FEAT 20 


fe ws 


EQUIPMENT 


‘SPELLS 


HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


Pw 


GAME 


| 


n => 
Li 


k $ 
AA N 
^A | 


os 


barbarians, brute force is a hammer and every problem looks like a nail, whereas others try to 
hold back the storm of emotions inside them and release their rage only when it matters most. 


KEY ABILITY 
STRENGTH 


At ist level, your class gives you 
an ability boost to Strength. 


BARBARIAN 


Rage consumes you in battle. You delight in wreaking havoc and using powerful 
weapons to carve through your enemies, relying on astonishing durability without 
needing complicated techniques or rigid training. Your rages draw upon a vicious 
instinct, which you might associate with an animal, a spirit, or some part of yourself. To many 


HIT POINTS 


12 plus your Constitution Modifier 
You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 


level thereafter. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You summon your rage and rush to the front lines to smash your way through. 
Offense is your best defense—you’ll need to drop foes before they can exploit your 
relatively low defenses. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


You use intimidation to get what you need, especially when gentler persuasion can’t 
get the job done. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


You look out for danger, ready to rush headfirst into battle in an instant. You climb 
the challenging rock wall and drop a rope for others to follow, and you wade into the 
risky currents to reach the hidden switch beneath the water’s surface. If something 
needs breaking, you’re up to the task! 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You might head to a tavern to carouse, build up the fearsome legend of your mighty 
deeds, or recruit followers to become a warlord in your own right. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Have a deep-seated well of anger, hatred, or frustration. 

* Prefer a straightforward approach to one requiring patience and tedium. 

* Engage in a regimen of intense physical fitness—and punch anyone who says this 
conflicts with your distaste for patience and tedium. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 
* Rely on your courage and your strength, and trust that you can hold your own in 
a fight. 

* See you as uncivilized or a boorish lout unfit for high society. 

* Believe that you are loyal to your friends and allies and will never relent until the 
fight is done. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


PERCEPTION 


Expert in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 
Expert in Fortitude 
Trained in Reflex 
Expert in Will 


SKILLS 

Trained in Athletics 

Trained in a number of 
additional skills equal to 3 plus 
your Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 


Trained in simple weapons 
Trained in martial weapons 
Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Trained in light armor 
Trained in medium armor 
Trained in unarmored defense 


CLASS DC 


Trained in barbarian class DC 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


: I NON ep e BS A 
p THFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
Rn: a rl 


TABLE 3-2: BARBARIAN ADVANCEMENT 


Your 
Level Class Features 


1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, 
rage, instinct, barbarian feat 

2 Barbarian feat, skill feat 

3 Deny advantage, general feat, skill increase 

4 Barbarian feat, skill feat 
5 
6 
7 


Ability boosts, ancestry feat, brutality, skill increase 
Barbarian feat, skill feat 

General feat, juggernaut, skill increase, weapon 
specialization 


8 Barbarian feat, skill feat 
9 Ancestry feat, lightning reflexes, raging resistance, 
skill increase 


10 Ability boosts, barbarian feat, skill feat 

11 General feat, mighty rage, skill increase 

12 Barbarian feat, skill feat 

13 Ancestry feat, greater juggernaut, medium armor 
expertise, skill increase, weapon fury 

14 Barbarian feat, skill feat 

15 Ability boosts, general feat, greater weapon 
specialization, indomitable will, skill increase 

16 Barbarian feat, skill feat 

17 Ancestry feat, heightened senses, skill increase, quick rage 

18 Barbarian feat, skill feat 

19 Armor of fury, devastator, general feat, skill increase 

20 Ability boosts, barbarian feat, skill feat 


CLASS FEATURES 


You gain these abilities as a barbarian. Abilities gained at 
higher levels list the requisite levels next to their names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 
1st level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry 
and background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies that 
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are 
noted in at the start of this class. 


RAGE 


You gain the Rage action, which lets you fly into a frenzy. 


RAGE 9 

Requirements You aren't fatigued or raging. 

You tap into your inner fury and begin raging. You gain a 
number of temporary Hit Points equal to your level plus 
your Constitution modifier. This frenzy lasts for 1 minute, 
until there are no enemies you can perceive, or until you fall 
unconscious, whichever comes first. You can't voluntarily stop 
raging. While you are raging: 


* You deal 2 additional damage on melee Strikes. 
This additional damage is halved if your weapon or 
unarmed attack is agile. 

* You take a -1 penalty to AC. 

* You cant use actions with the concentrate trait unless 
they also have the rage trait. You can Seek while raging. 

After you stop raging, you lose any remaining temporary Hit 

Points from Rage, and you can't Rage again for 1 minute. 


INSTINCT 


Your rage wells up from a dominant instinct—one you 
learned from a tradition or that comes naturally to you. Your 
instinct gives you an ability, requires you to avoid certain 
behaviors, grants you increased damage and resistances 
at higher levels, and allows you to select feats tied to your 
instinct. For more information, see Instincts on page 86. 


BARBARIAN FEATS 


At 1st level and every even-numbered level thereafter, 
you gain a barbarian class feat. Barbarian class feats are 
described beginning on page 88. 


SKILL FEATS eND 


At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
feat. Skill feats appear in Chapter 5 and have the skill trait. 
You must be trained or better in the corresponding skill to 
select a skill feat. 


DENY ADVANTAGE 3RD 


Your foes struggle to pass your defenses. You aren’t flat- 
footed to hidden, undetected, or flanking creatures of your 
level or lower, or creatures of your level or lower using 
surprise attack. However, they can still help their allies flank. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a general 
feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your 
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained 
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in 
which you’re already trained to expert. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase 
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you're 
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to 
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in 
which you're already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At Sth level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 if 
it starts below 18. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at Sth level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2. 


BRUTALITY STH 


Your fury makes your weapons lethal. Your proficiency 
ranks for simple weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed 
attacks increase to expert. While raging, you gain access 
to the critical specialization effects for melee weapons 
and unarmed attacks. 


JUGGERNAUT 7TH 


Your body is accustomed to physical hardship and 
resistant to ailments. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude 
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a 
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH 


Your rage helps you hit harder. You deal an 
additional 2 damage with weapons and unarmed 
attacks in which you have expert proficiency. 
This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and 
4 if you’re legendary. You gain your instinct's 
specialization ability. 


LIGHTNING REFLEXES STH 


Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your 
proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases 
to expert. 


RAGING RESISTANCE 


Repeated exposure and toughened skin allow you 


to fend off harm. While raging, you gain resistance ? \ 


equal to 3 + your Constitution modifier to damage 
types based on your instinct. 


MIGHTY RAGE ITH 


Your rage intensifies and lets you burst into action. Your 
proficiency rank for your barbarian class DC increases 
to expert. You gain the Mighty Rage free action. 


MIGHTY RAGE €* 


Trigger You use the Rage action on your turn. 
Use an action that has the rage trait. Alternatively, you can 
increase the actions of the triggering Rage to 2 to instead use 
a 2-action activity with the rage trait. 


GREATER JUGGERNAUT 13TH 


You have a stalwart physiology. Your proficiency rank for 


Fortitude saves increases to legendary. When you roll a 
critical failure on a Fortitude save, you get a failure instead. 
When you roll a failure on a Fortitude save against an 
effect that deals damage, you halve the damage you take. 


sm E \ 


MEDIUM ARMOR EXPERTISE 13TH 


Yov’ve learned to defend yourself better against attacks. 
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor, 
and unarmored defense increase to expert. 


WEAPON FURY 13TH 


Your rage makes you even more effective with the 
weapons you wield. Your proficiency ranks for simple 
weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed attacks increase 
to master. 


ü 
H 
[| 
b 


PETOT EDAN 


INTRODUCTION 


“hy 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 
FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


EBOOK j 
rer wer" | 


GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION ISTH 


The weapons you’ve mastered become truly fearsome in 
your hands. Your damage from weapon specialization 
increases to 4 with weapons and unarmed attacks in 
which you’re an expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if 
you’re legendary. You gain a greater benefit from your 
instinct’s specialization ability. 


INDOMITABLE WILL ISTH 


Your rage makes it difficult to control you. Your proficiency 
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a 
success on a Will save, you get a critical success instead. 


HEIGHTENED SENSES 17TH 


Your instinct heightens each of your senses further. Your 
proficiency rank for Perception increases to master. 


QUICK RAGE 17TH 


You recover from your Rage quickly, and are soon ready 
to begin anew. After you spend a full turn without raging, 
you can Rage again without needing to wait 1 minute. 


ARMOR OF FURY ISTH 


Your training and rage deepen your connection to your 
armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium 
armor, and unarmored defense increase to master. 


DEVASTATOR ISTH 


Your Strikes are so devastating that you hardly care about 
resistance, and your barbarian abilities are unparalleled. 
Your proficiency rank for your barbarian class DC 
increases to master. Your melee Strikes ignore 10 points 
of a creature’s resistance to their physical damage. 


INSTINCTS 
You channel your rage through an instinct. You decide 
what your instinct means to you. It could be a creature or 
symbol beloved by your clan, or a purely internal source 
or filter of your rage, such as a belief, curse, heritage, 
or state of mind. Each instinct grants an instinct ability, 
plus more abilities you can gain via feats that list that 
instinct as a prerequisite. It also determines what damage 
you resist with raging resistance and, at higher levels, 
increases the additional damage you deal when you Rage. 
Each instinct lists acts that are anathema to it. Whenever 
you perform such acts, you lose the instinct’s abilities and 
any feats that list your instinct as a prerequisite until you 
spend 1 day of downtime re-centering yourself, though 
you keep all of your other barbarian abilities. 


ANIMAL INSTINCT 


The fury of a wild predator fills you when you Rage, 
granting you ferocious unarmed attacks. Cultures that 
revere vicious animals (such as apes or bears) give rise 
to barbarians with this instinct. You might also be at 


war with an uncontrollable, animalistic side of your 
personality, or you might be a descendant of a werewolf 
or another werecreature. Select an animal from Table 3-3: 
Animal Instincts that best matches your chosen animal. 


TABLE 3-3: ANIMAL INSTINCTS 


Animal Attack Damage Traits 
Ape Fist 1d10 B Grapple, unarmed 
Bear Jaws 1d10 P Unarmed 

Claw {d6 S Agile, unarmed 
Bull Horn 1d10 P Shove, unarmed 
Cat Jaws 1d10 P Unarmed 

Claw 1d6 S Agile, unarmed 
Deer Antler 1d10 P Grapple, unarmed 
Frog Jaws 1d10 B Unarmed 

Tongue 1d4B Agile, unarmed 
Shark Jaws 1d10 P Grapple, unarmed 
Snake Fangs 1d10 P Grapple, unarmed 
Wolf Jaws 1d10 P Trip, unarmed 
ANATHEMA 


Flagrantly disrespecting an animal of your chosen kind is 
anathema to your instinct, as is using weapons while raging. 


Bestia Race [Instinct Asitity) 

When you Rage, you gain your chosen animal’s unarmed 
attack (or attacks). The specific attack gained, the damage it 
deals, and its traits are listed on Table 3-3: Animal Instincts. 
These attacks are in the brawling group. Your Rage action 
gains the morph, primal, and transmutation traits. 


SPECIALIZATION ABILITY 7TH 
Increase the damage die size for the unarmed attacks 
granted by your chosen animal by one step, and increase the 
additional damage from Rage from 2 to 5 for your chosen 
animal’s unarmed attacks. The frog’s tongue attack and 
deer’s antler attack gain reach 10 feet. If you have greater 
weapon specialization, increase the damage from Rage 
from 5 to 12 for your chosen animal’s unarmed attacks. 


Racine RESISTANCE STH 
You resist piercing and slashing damage. 


DRAGON INSTINCT 


You summon the fury of a mighty dragon and manifest 
incredible abilities. Perhaps your culture reveres draconic 
majesty, or you gained insights by drinking or bathing in 
dragon’s blood or watching a marauding wyrm burn your 
village. Select a type of dragon from Table 3-4: Dragon 
Instincts as your instinct’s dragon type. Chromatic dragons 
tend to be evil, and metallic dragons tend to be good. 


TABLE 3-4: DRAGON INSTINCTS 


DragonType Category Breath Weapon 
Black Chromatic Line of acid 
Blue Chromatic Line of electricity 


Green Chromatic Cone of poison 
Red Chromatic Cone of fire 
White Chromatic Cone of cold 
Brass Metallic Line of fire 
Bronze Metallic Line of electricity 
Copper Metallic Line of acid 

Gold Metallic Cone of fire 
Silver Metallic Cone of cold 
ANATHEMA 


Letting a personal insult against you slide is anathema to 
your instinct. Choose whether your character respects or 
abhors your dragon type. If you respect it, defying such a 
dragon is anathema, and if you abhor it, failing to defeat 
such a dragon you come across is anathema. 


Draconic Race (Instinct Agiuity) 

While raging, you can increase the additional damage 
from Rage from 2 to 4 and change its damage type to 
match that of your dragon’s breath weapon instead of the 
damage type for your weapon or unarmed attack. If you 
do this, your Rage action gains the arcane and evocation 
traits, as well as the trait matching the damage type. 


SPECIALIZATION ABILITY 7TH 
When you use draconic rage, you increase the additional 
damage from Rage from 4 to 8. If you have greater 
weapon specialization, instead increase the damage from 
Rage when using draconic rage from 8 to 16. 


Racine RESISTANCE STH 
You resist piercing damage and the damage type of your 
dragon’s breath weapon. 


FURY INSTINCT 


Your rage comes from a deep and purely personal well 
within you. You use your rage as you choose. 


ANATHEMA AND INSTINCT ABILITY 
You don’t have an anathema or an instinct ability. Instead, 
you gain an additional 1st-level barbarian feat. 


SPECIALIZATION ABILITY 7TH 
Increase the additional damage from Rage from 2 to 6. If 
you have greater weapon specialization, instead increase 
the additional damage from Rage to 12. 


Racine RESISTANCE gru 
You resist physical weapon damage, but not physical 
damage from other sources (such as unarmed attacks). 


BIANT INSTINCT 


Your rage gives you the raw power and size of a giant. 
This doesn't necessarily mean you revere giants—you 
might scoff at them or even aspire to slay them! You 
could instead seem like a giant to other people due to 


KEY TERMS 
You'll see the following key terms in many barbarian 
class features. 

Flourish: Flourish actions are techniques that require 
too much exertion to perform a large number in a row. 
You can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn. 

Open: These maneuvers work only as your first salvo 
on your turn. You can use an open action only if you 
haven't used an action with the attack or open trait yet 
this turn. 

Rage: You must be raging to use abilities with 
the rage trait, and they end automatically when you 
stop raging. 


your exceptional strength or larger-than-life emotions 
and ego. 


ANATHEMA 
Failing to face a personal challenge of strength is anathema. 


Titan Maurer (Instinct Agir] 

You can use a weapon built for a Large creature if you 
are Small or Medium (both normally and when raging). If 
you're not Small or Medium, you can use a weapon built for 
a creature one size larger than you. You gain access to this 
larger weapon, which can be of any weapon type otherwise 
available at character creation. It has the normal Price and 
Bulk for a weapon of its size (page 295). When wielding 
such a weapon in combat, increase your additional damage 
from Rage from 2 to 6, but you have the clumsy 1 condition 
(page 618) because of the weapon's unwieldy size. You can't 
remove this clumsy condition or ignore its penalties by any 
means while wielding the weapon. 


SPECIALIZATION ABILITY 7TH 
Increase the damage from Rage when using a larger weapon 
from 6 to 10; if you have greater weapon specialization, 
increase it from 10 to 18. 


Racine RESISTANCE gru 
You resist bludgeoning damage and your choice of cold, 
electricity, or fire, chosen when you gain raging resistance. 


SPIRIT INSTINCT 


Whether you are emotionally sensitive to the spirits around 
you; worship ancestors or apparitions; or are haunted by 
the specter of an ancestor, relative, friend, or foe, your rage 
takes the form of a spiritual possession. 


ANATHEMA 
Disrespecting corpses or spirits is anathema to your 
instinct; defending yourself against undead creatures is not. 


Spirit Race (Instinct Agiuity) 
While raging, you can increase the additional damage 
from Rage from 2 to 3 and change its damage type to 


CLASSES 


EQUIPMENT 
"OS 

; ‘SPELLS 
m 

- THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
. BAME 


| B TREASURE 


ADD " 
APPEND 


e 


"HFINDER) COR 
BARBARIAN FEATS 


If you need to look up a 
barbarian feat by name instead 
of by level, use this table. 


Feat 

Acute Scent 

Acute Vision 

Animal Rage 

Animal Skin 

Attack of Opportunity 
Awesome Blow 
Brutal Bully 

Brutal Critical 

Cleave 

Collateral Thrash 
Come and Get Me 
Contagious Rage 
Dragon's Rage Breath 
Dragon's Rage Wings 


Dragon Transformation 


Fast Movement 
Furious Bully 
Furious Finish 
Furious Grab 
Furious Sprint 
Giant's Lunge 
Giant's Stature 
Great Cleave 
Knockback 
Moment of Clarity 
No Escape 
Perfect Clarity 
Predator's Pounce 
Quaking Stomp 
Raging Athlete 
Raging Intimidation 
Raging Thrower 
Reckless Abandon 
Renewed Vigor 
Second Wind 
Shake It Off 
Share Rage 
Spirits’ Interference 
Spirit's Wrath 
Sudden Charge 
Sudden Leap 
Swipe 

Terrifying Howl 
Thrash 

Titan's Stature 
Vengeful Strike 
Vicious Evisceration 
Whirlwind Strike 
Wounded Rage 


Level 
2 


1 
8 
6 
6 


20 


= 


E 


= 
COS) e (oo) — [i5 OC) (20 o [2 oo c» = —. Miss 


— Fs 
A N 


BE 


E RULEBOOK 43 


negative or positive, instead of the damage type for your weapon or unarmed attack 
(choose each time you Rage). If you choose to deal negative or positive damage, your 
weapon or unarmed attack gains the effects of the ghost touch property rune, which 
makes it more effective against incorporeal creatures, and your Rage action gains the 
divine and necromancy traits, plus negative or positive, as appropriate. 


SPECIALIZATION ABILITY 7TH 
When using spirit rage, increase the damage from Rage from 3 to 7. If you have greater 
weapon specialization, instead increase the damage when using spirit rage to 13. 


Racine RESISTANCE STH 
You resist negative damage, as well as damage dealt by the attacks and abilities of 
undead creatures, regardless of the damage type. 


BARBARIAN FEATS 


At every level that you gain a barbarian feat, you can select one of the following 
feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites before selecting the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


ACUTE VISION FEAT 1 
| BARBARIAN | 
When you are raging, your visual senses improve, granting you darkvision. 

FEAT 1 


MOMENT OF CLARITY +> 


| BARBARIA 0 RA AGER 


You push back your rage for a moment in order to think clearly. Until the end of this turn, you 
can use actions with the concentrate trait even if those actions don't have the rage trait. 


RAGING INTIMIDATION FEAT 1 


BARBARIA 


Your fury fills your foes with fear. While you are raging, your Demoralize and Scare to Death 
actions (from the Intimidation skill and an Intimidation skill feat, respectively) gain the rage 
trait, allowing you to use them while raging. As soon as you meet the prerequisites for the 
skill feats Intimidating Glare and Scare to Death, you gain these feats. 


RAGING THROWER 


| BARBARIA 


FEAT 1 


Thrown weapons become especially deadly in your fury. You apply the additional damage 
from Rage to your thrown weapon attacks. If you have the Brutal Critical feat or the 
devastator class feature, apply their benefits to thrown weapon attacks. 


SUDDEN CHARGE 9$ 
BARBARIAN | FLOURISH | OPEN | 
With a quick sprint, you dash up to your foe and swing. Stride twice. If you end your 
movement within melee reach of at least one enemy, you can make a melee Strike against 
that enemy. You can use Sudden Charge while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or Swimming 
instead of Striding if you have the corresponding movement type. 


END LEVEL 


ACUTE SCENT FEAT 2 


FEAT 1 


BARIA 


Prerequisites Acute Vision or darkvision 
When you Rage, your sense of smell improves. You gain imprecise scent with a range of 30 feet. 


FURIOUS FINISH > 


FEAT 2 


| BARBARIAN | RAGE | 


Desperate to finish the fight, you pour all your rage into one final 
blow. Make a Strike. If it hits, you gain a circumstance bonus to 
damage equal to the number of rounds remaining in your Rage 
(maximum 10). After this Strike, your Rage immediately ends, 
and you are fatigued until you rest for at least 10 minutes. 


NO ESCAPE > FEAT 2 


back sickness. Reduce your frightened condition value by 1, 
and attempt a Fortitude save to recover from the sickened 
condition as if you had spent an action retching; you reduce 
your sickened condition value by 1 on a failure (but not on a 
critical failure), by 2 on a success, or by 3 on a critical success. 


4TH LEVEL 


FAST MOVEMENT FEAT 4 


| BARBARIAN | RAGE] 


Trigger A foe within reach attempts to move away from you. 

You keep pace with a retreating foe. Stride up to your Speed, 
following the foe and keeping it in reach throughout its 
movement until it stops moving or you've moved your full 
Speed. You can use No Escape to Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim 
instead of Stride if you have the corresponding movement type. 


SECOND WIND FEAT 2 


You can enter a second rage, but afterward you need to catch 
your breath. You can Rage without waiting for 1 minute after the 
previous Rage (or 1 round, with quick rage), but when you end 
this second Rage, you're fatigued until you rest for 10 minutes. 


SHAKE IT OFF *> FEAT 2 
| BARBARIAN | CONCENTRATE | RAGE | 


You concentrate on your rage, overcoming fear and fighting 


BARBARIAN 


While raging, you gain a +10-foot status bonus to your Speed. 


RAGING ATHLETE FEAT 4 
Prerequisites expert in Athletics 

Physical obstacles can't hold back your fury. While you are raging, 
you gain a climb Speed and swim Speed equal to your land Speed 
and the DC of High Jumps and Long Jumps decreases by 10. Your 
distance for a vertical Leap increases to 5 feet vertically, and your 
distance for a horizontal Leap increases to 15 feet if your Speed 
is at least 15 feet and to 20 feet if your Speed is at least 30 feet. 


SWIPE 9$ FEAT 4 


You make a wide, arcing swing. Make a single melee Strike and 
compare the attack roll result to the ACs of up to two foes, each of 
whom must be within your melee reach and adjacent to the other. 


KE 
B 
a 
EE 


s 
» j 


JJ. MASTERING 


— 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 
FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 


| CRAFTING 
i & TREASURE 
| APPENDIX 
Veo 


ANIMAL RAGER 


The animal within you breaks free, turning you 


into a feral creature of nature when you rage. You 
follow your instincts rather than reason, and you 
find yourself at home in the wilderness. 


ie IF 
ABILITY SCORES 
Increase your Strength as high as you can, followed by 


your Constitution and Dexterity. A high Wisdom can 
improve your senses. 


SKILLS 


Athletics, Intimidation, Nature, Survival 


INSTINCT 


Animal instinct 


STARTING FEAT 


Raging Intimidation 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
No Escape (2nd), Animal Skin (6th), Animal Rage (8th), 
Terrifying Howl (10th), Predator's Pounce (12th) 


Roll damage only once and apply it to each creature you hit. A 
Swipe counts as two attacks for your multiple attack penalty. 

If you're using a weapon with the sweep trait, its modifier 
applies to all your Swipe attacks. 


WOUNDED RAGE 2 FEAT 4 
Trigger You take damage and are capable of entering a rage. 
You roar in pain, awakening the rage within you. You Rage. 


6TH LEVEL 


ANIMAL SKIN FEAT 6 
| BARBARIAN | MORPH | PRIMAL | TRANSMUTATION | 

Prerequisites animal instinct 

Your proficiency in unarmored defense increases to expert. 
When you are raging and unarmored, your skin transforms into 
a thick hide. You gain a *2 item bonus to AC (*3 if you have 
the greater juggernaut class feature). The thickness of your hide 
gives you a Dexterity modifier cap to your AC of +3. This item 
bonus to AC is cumulative with armor potency runes on your 
explorer clothing, mage armor, and bracers of armor. 


ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY 2 FEAT 6 
Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action 
or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square 
during a move action it's using. 
You swat a foe that leaves an opening. Make a melee Strike 
against the triggering creature. If your attack is a critical hit and 
the trigger was a manipulate action, you disrupt that action. 
This Strike doesn't count toward your multiple attack penalty, 
and your multiple attack penalty doesn't apply to this Strike. 


BRUTAL BULLY FEAT 6 
Prerequisites expert in Athletics 

You push your foes around and leave bruises. While raging, when 
you successfully Disarm, Grapple, Shove, or Trip a foe, you deal 
that foe bludgeoning damage equal to your Strength modifier; 
add this to the damage from a critical success to Trip. 


CLEAVE > FEAT 6 

| BARBARIAN | RAGE 

Trigger Your melee Strike kills a creature or knocks it 
unconscious, and another foe is adjacent to that creature. 

You swing clear through one foe and into another. Make a 

melee Strike against the second foe. 


DRAGON'S RAGE BREATH 95 FEAT 6 
| ARCANE | BARBARIAN | CONCENTRATE [EVOCATION | RAGE 
Prerequisites dragon instinct 

Requirements You havent used this ability since you last Raged. 
You breathe deeply and exhale powerful energy in a 30-foot 
cone or 60-foot line, dealing 1d6 damage per level. The area 
and damage type match those of your dragon (see Table 3-4 


on page 86). If you used this ability in the last hour, the area 
and the damage are halved (15-foot cone or 30-foot line; 1d6 
damage for every 2 levels). Each creature in the area must 
attempt a basic Reflex save. 


GIANT'S STATURE > 


FEAT 6 


Preenucites giant aati 
Requirements You are Medium or smaller. 


your jump. If the distance you fall is no more than the height of 
your jump, you take no damage and land upright. 

When attempting a High Jump or Long Jump during a 
Sudden Leap, determine the DC using the Long Jump DCs, and 
increase your maximum distance to double your Speed. 


THRASH +> FEATS 


Requirements You have a foe grabbed. 


You grow to incredible size. You become Large, increasing your 
reach by 5 feet and gaining the clumsy 1 condition (page 618) 
until you stop raging. Your equipment grows with you. 


SPIRITS’ INTERFERENCE 9 FEAT 6 


| BARBARIAN | DIVINE | NECROMANCY | RAGE 
Prerequisites spirit instinct 


You call forth protective spirits to ward off ranged attacks. Until 
your rage ends, anyone making a ranged attack against you must 
succeed at a DC 5 flat check or the attack misses with no effect. 


8TH LEVEL 


ANIMAL EHI FEAT 8 


Prerequisites ae instinct - 


You transform into your animal. You gain the effects of the 
3rd-level animal form spell except you use your own statistics, 
temporary Hit Points, and unarmed attacks instead of those 
granted by animal form. You also retain the constant abilities of 
your gear. If your animal is a frog, your tongues reach increases 
to 15 feet. Dismissing the transformation gains the rage trait. 


FURIOUS BULLY FEAT8 


You thrash the grabbed foe around. It takes bludgeoning damage 
equal to your Strength modifier plus your weapon specialization 
damage plus your Rage damage. The foe must attempt a basic 
Fortitude save against your class DC. 


10TH LEVEL 


COME AND GET ME +> FEAT 10 
| BARBARIAN | CONCENTRATE [RAGE| 

You open yourself to attacks so you can respond in turn. Until 
your rage ends, you are flat-footed, and damage rolls against you 
gain a +2 circumstance bonus. If a creature hits you, that creature 
is flat-footed to you until the end of your next turn. If you hit it 
before the end of your next turn, you gain temporary Hit Points 
equal to your Constitution modifier, or double that on a critical hit. 
These temporary Hit Points last until the end of your rage. 


FURIOUS SPRINT 99 FEAT 10 


You rush forward. Stride up to five times your Speed in a straight 
line. You can increase the number of actions this activity takes to 
3 to Stride up to eight times your Speed in a straight line instead. 


GREAT CLEAVE FEAT 10 


| BARBARIAN | 
Prerequisites master in Athletics 


| BARBARIAN | RAGE | 
Prerequisites Cleave 


You bully foes across the battlefield. While raging, you gain a 
+2 circumstance bonus to Athletics checks for attack actions. 


a VIGOR D VIGOR È> FEAT 8 


You ET recover your raging vigor. You gain temporary Hit 
Points equal to half your level plus your Constitution modifier. 


FEAT 8 


SHARE SHARE RAGE © _ 


Requirements You even ree this ability since you last Raged. 
You stoke an ally’s fury. While you are raging, one willing 
creature within 30 feet gains the effects of the Rage action, 
except it can still use concentrate actions. 


SUDDEN LEAP >> 
You swing at a foe while mid-leap. Make a Leap, High Jump, or 
Long Jump and attempt one melee Strike at any point during your 
jump. Immediately after the Strike, you fall to the ground if you're 
in the air, even if you haven't reached the maximum distance of 


FEAT8 


Your fury carries your weapon through multiple foes. When you 
Cleave, if your Strike also kills or knocks the target unconscious, 
you can continue to make melee Strikes until you make a Strike 
that doesnt kill or knock a creature unconscious, or until there 
are no creatures adjacent to the most recent creature you 
attacked while Cleaving, whichever comes first. 


KNOCKBACK «> 
| BARBARIAN | RAGE 
Requirements Your last action was a successful Strike. 

The weight of your swing drives your enemy back. You push 
the foe back 5 feet, with the effects of a successful Shove. You 
can follow the foe as normal for a successful Shove. 


TERRIFYING HOWL *> 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


| AUDITORY | BARBARIAN | RAGE] 
Prerequisites Intimidating Glare 


You unleash a terrifying howl. Attempt Intimidate checks to 
Demoralize each enemy within 30 feet. Regardless of the 
results of your checks, each creature is then temporarily 
immune to Terrifying Howl for 1 minute. 


EQUIPMENT 
gian 


SPELLS 
(s 


HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 


PATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


SAMPLE BARBARIAN 


——F 
M 


-—— 


Eom 


You keep things simple, because you need only one 
thing to drive you: your own inner rage. 


` 
Nes i 


ABILITY SCORES 
Prioritize your Strength, then your Constitution and 
Dexterity. Wisdom can make you more perceptive. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Athletics, Intimidation, Stealth 


INSTINCT 


Fury instinct 


STARTING FEAT 
Sudden Charge 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Furious Finish (2nd), Fast Movement (4th), Attack of 
Opportunity (6th), Whirlwind Strike (14th) 


12TH LEVEL 


DRAGON'S RAGE WINGS «> FEAT 12 
| BARBARIAN | MORPH | PRIMAL [RAGE TRANSMUTATION | 

Prerequisites dragon instinct 

You sprout dragon wings from your back of the same color 
as your chosen dragon. While you are raging, you gain a 
fly Speed equal to your land Speed. If you are flying when 
your rage ends, you start to fall but the transformation only 
completes at the last moment, so you take no damage from 
the fall and land standing up. 


FURIOUS GRAB “> 
RAGE 
Requirements Your last action was a successful Strike, and either 

you have a hand free or your Strike used a grapple weapon. 
You grab your foe while it’s distracted by your attack. The 
foe you hit becomes grabbed, as if you had succeeded at an 
Athletics check to Grapple the foe. 


PREDATOR'S POUNCE -9 
[BARBARIAN | FLOURISH | OPEN | RAGE] 
Prerequisites animal instinct 
Requirements You are unarmored or wearing light armor. 

You close the distance to your prey in a blur, pouncing on the 
creature before it can react. You Stride up to your Speed and 
make a Strike at the end of your movement. 


SPIRIT'S WRATH > 

| ATTACK | BARBARIAN | CONCENTRATE | RAGE 
Prerequisites spirit instinct 

You call forth an ephemeral apparition, typically the ghost 
of an ancestor or a nature spirit, which takes the form of a 
wisp. The spirit wisp makes a melee wisp rush unarmed 
attack against an enemy within 120 feet of you. The wisp's 
attack modifier is equal to your proficiency bonus for martial 
weapons plus your Strength modifier plus a *2 item bonus, 
and it applies the same circumstance and status bonuses 
and penalties that you have. On a hit, the wisp deals damage 
equal to 4d8 plus your Constitution modifier. The damage is 
your choice of negative or positive damage; don't apply your 
Rage damage or your weapon specialization damage, but 
circumstance and status bonuses and penalties that would 
also affect the wisps damage apply. If your wisp' Strike is a 
critical hit, the target becomes frightened 1. This attack uses 
and counts toward your multiple attack penalty as if you were 
the one attacking. 


TITAN'S STATURE 

Prerequisites giant instinct, Giant's Stature 
You grow to even greater size. When using Giant's Stature, 
you can instead become Huge (increasing your reach by 10 
feet if you were Medium or smaller) while you are raging. 
You have the clumsy 1 condition (page 618) as long as you 
are Huge. 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


14TH LEVEL 


AWESOME BLOW FEAT 14 

Í BARBARIAN | CONCENTRATE | RAGE | 

Prerequisites Knockback 

Your attacks are so powerful, they can flatten your opponents. 

When you use Knockback, you can attempt an Athletics check 

against your target's Fortitude DC. 

Critical Success You gain the critical success effect of a Shove, 
then the critical success effect of a Trip against the target. 

Success You gain the success effect of a Shove, then the 
success effect of a Trip against the target. 

Failure You gain the normal effect of Knockback. 


GIANT'S LUNGE 9 
| BARBARIAN | CONCENTRATE | RAGE 
Prerequisites giant instinct 


FEAT 14 


attack modifier, you apply your extra damage from Rage, and 
the Breath Weapon uses your class DC. The action to Dismiss 
the transformation gains the rage trait. 

At 18th level, you gain a +20-foot status bonus to your fly 
Speed, your damage bonus with dragon Strikes increases to +12, 
and you gain a +14 status bonus to your breath weapon damage. 


RECKLESS ABANDON & FEAT 16 


| BARBARIAN | RAGE| 


Trigger Your turn begins, and you are at half or fewer Hit Points. 


Your blood boils when you take a beating, and you throw caution 
to the wind to finish the fight. You gain a +2 circumstance 
bonus to attack rolls, a -2 penalty to AC, and a -1 penalty to 
saves. These bonuses and penalties last until your Rage ends 
or until you are above half Hit Points, whichever comes first. 


18TH LEVEL 


You extend your body and prepare to attack foes outside your 
normal reach. Until your rage ends, all your melee weapons 
and unarmed attacks gain reach 10. This doesn't increase the 
reach of any weapon or unarmed attack that already has the 
reach trait, but it does combine with abilities that increase 
your reach due to increased size, such as Giant's Stature. 


FEAT 14 


Trigger A creature within your reach succeeds or critically 
succeeds at an attack against you. 

Requirements You're under the effect of Come and Get Me. 

When struck by an enemy, you respond in turn. Make a melee 

Strike against the triggering creature. This Strike doesn't 

count toward your multiple attack penalty, and your multiple 

attack penalty doesn't apply to this Strike. 


WHIRLWIND STRIKE 93? 


FEAT 14 


You attack all nearby adversaries. Make a melee Strike against 
each enemy within your melee reach. Each attack counts 
toward your multiple attack penalty, but do not increase your 
penalty until you have made all your attacks. 


16TH LEVEL 


COLLATERAL THRASH FEAT 16 


| BARBARIAN | FLourisH open] 


| BARBARIAN | RAGE| 
Prerequisites Thrash 


When you Thrash a grabbed foe, you smack that foe into another 
nearby. Another foe adjacent to the grabbed foe also takes your 
Thrash damage, with a basic Reflex save against your class DC. 


DRAGON TRANSFORMATION «> FEAT 16 


BRUTAL CRITICAL FEAT 18 
Your critical hits are particularly devastating. On a critical hit with 
a melee Strike, add one extra damage die. This is in addition to 
any extra dice you gain if the weapon is deadly or fatal. The target 
also takes persistent bleed damage equal to two damage dice. 


PERFECT CLARITY 2 FEAT 18 


| BARBARIAN | CONCENTRATE | FORTUNE | RAGE 
Trigger You fail or critically fail an attack roll or Will save. 


You burn out all of your rage to ensure that your attack lands 
and your mind remains free. Reroll the triggering attack roll or 
Will save with a +2 circumstance bonus, use the better result, 
and resolve the effect. You then immediately stop raging. 


VICIOUS EVISCERATION *>> FEAT 18 


You make a vicious attack that maims your enemy. Make a 
melee Strike. If the Strike hits and deals damage, the target is 
drained 1, or drained 2 on a critical success. 


20TH LEVEL 


CONTAGIOUS RAGE FEAT 20 


Í nupironv | BarBarian its visuat | 


Prerequisites Share Rage 


You can drive your allies into a frenzy, granting them incredible 
benefits. You can ignore the requirements on Share Rage, 
using it multiple times in a Rage. Allies affected by Share Rage 
who accept your anathema for the duration of the Rage gain 
your instinct ability and the specialization ability it gains from 
weapon specialization, but not greater weapon specialization. 


QUAKING STOMP +> FEAT 20 


Prerequisites dragon instinct, Dragons Rage Wings 


Frequency once per 10 minutes 


You transform into a ferocious Large dragon, gaining the effects 
of 6th-level dragon form except that you use your own AC and 


You stomp the ground with such force that it creates a minor 
earthquake, with the effects of the earthquake spell. 


aaa 
.. THE AGE OF 
_ LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
m GAME 


al 


GAME 


RULEBOOK 4 


RE 


co 


> ik 
* M. m —ÁY, 
Ew 3 a 


Bo. 


You are a master of artistry, a scholar of hidden secrets, and a captivating 

persuader. Using powerful performances, you influence minds and elevate 

souls to new levels of heroics. You might use your powers to become a 

charismatic leader, or perhaps you might instead be a counselor, manipulator, scholar, 

scoundrel, or virtuoso. While your versatility leads some to consider you a beguiling ne'er- 
do-well and a jack-of-all-trades, it’s dangerous to dismiss you as a master of none. 


HIT POINTS 


8 plus your Constitution modifier 

You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 
level thereafter. 


KEY ABILITY 
CHARISMA 


At 1st level, your class gives you 
an ability boost to Charisma. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You use magical performances to alter the odds in favor of your allies. You confidently 
alternate between attacks, healing, and helpful spells as needed. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


You persuade, prevaricate, and threaten with ease. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


Yov're a font of knowledge, folktales, legends, and lore that provide a deeper context 
and helpful reconnaissance for the group’s adventure. Your spells and performances 
inspire your allies to greater discovery and success. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You can earn money and prestige with your performances, gaining a name for 
yourself and acquiring patrons. Eventually, tales of your talents and triumphs might 
attract other bards to study your techniques in a bardic college. 


mi MIGHT... 


Have a passion for your art so strong that you forge a spiritual connection with it. 
* Take point when tact and nonviolent solutions are required. 
* Follow your muse, whether it's a mysterious fey creature, a philosophical 
concept, a psychic force, or a deity of art or music, and with its aid learn secret 
lore that few others have. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


e Relish the opportunity to invite you to social events, either as a performer or a 
guest, but consider you to be something of a curiosity in their social circles. 

* Underestimate you compared to other spellcasters, believing you are little more 
than a foppish minstrel and overlooking the subtle power of your magic. 

* Respond favorably to your social charm and abilities, but remain suspicious of 
your beguiling magic. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


PERCEPTION 


Expert in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 


Trained in Fortitude 
Trained in Reflex 
Expert in Will 


SKILLS 


Trained in Occultism 

Trained in Performance 

Trained in a number of 
additional skills equal to 4 plus 
your Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 


Trained in simple weapons 
Trained in the longsword, rapier, 
sap, shortbow, shortsword, and 
whip 
Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Trained in light armor 
Trained in unarmored defense 


SPELLS 


Trained in occult spell attacks 
Trained in occult spell DCs 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


eee eee T mco | 


3 


-R) CORE RULEBOOK 3j 


TABLE 3-5: BARD ADVANCEMENT 


Your 
Level Class Features 


1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, 
occult spellcasting, spell repertoire, composition 
spells, muse 

2 Bard feat, skill feat 

3 2nd-level spells, general feat, lightning reflexes, 


signature spells, skill increase 
4 Bard feat, skill feat 


5 3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat, 
skill increase 

6 Bard feat, skill feat 

7 Ath-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat, 
skill increase 

8 Bard feat, skill feat 

9 5th-level spells, ancestry feat, great fortitude, 


resolve, skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, bard feat, skill feat 

11 6th-level spells, bard weapon expertise, general feat, 
skill increase, vigilant senses 

12 Bard feat, skill feat 

13 7th-level spells, ancestry feat, light armor expertise, 
skill increase, weapon specialization 

14 Bard feat, skill feat 

15 8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master 
spellcaster, skill increase 

16 Bard feat, skill feat 

17 Sth-level spells, ancestry feat, greater resolve, 
skill increase 

18 Bard feat, skill feat 

19 General feat, legendary spellcaster, magnum opus, 
skill increase 

20 Ability boosts, bard feat, skill feat 


CLASS FEATURES 


You gain these abilities as a bard. Abilities gained at higher 
levels list the requisite levels next to the features' names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st 
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies, representing 
your basic training. These are noted at the start of this class. 


OCCULT SPELLCASTING 


You draw upon magic from esoteric knowledge. You can 
cast occult spells using the Cast a Spell activity, and you 
can supply material, somatic, and verbal components when 
casting spells (see Casting Spells on page 302). Because 
youre a bard, you can usually play an instrument for 
spells requiring somatic or material components, as long as 


it takes at least one of your hands to do so. If you use an 
instrument, you don’t need a material component pouch or 
another hand free. You can usually also play an instrument 
for spells requiring verbal components, instead of speaking. 

Each day, you can cast up to two 1st-level spells. You 
must know spells to cast them, and you learn them via the 
spell repertoire class feature. The number of spells you can 
cast each day is called your spell slots. 

As you increase in level as a bard, your number of spells 
per day increases, as does the highest level of spells you can 
cast, as shown on Table 3-6: Bard Spells per Day on page 98. 

Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack 
roll to see how effective they are, or have your enemies 
roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving 
throw). Since your key ability is Charisma, your spell 
attack rolls and spell DCs use your Charisma modifier. 
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 447. 


HEIGHTENING SPELLS 

When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can fill 
those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells. This 
increases the spell’s level to match the spell slot. You must 
have a spell in your spell repertoire at the level you want to 
cast in order to heighten it to that level. Many spells have 
specific improvements when they are heightened to certain 
levels (page 299). The signature spells class feature lets you 
heighten certain spells freely. 


CANTRIPS 

Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special type 
of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a cantrip at 
will, any number of times per day. A cantrip is automatically 
heightened to half your level rounded up—this is usually 
equal to the highest level of bard spell slot you have. For 
example, as a 1st-level bard, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, 
and as a 5th-level bard, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells. 


SPELL REPERTOIRE 


The collection of spells you can cast is called your spell 
repertoire. At 1st level, you learn two 1st-level occult spells 
of your choice and five occult cantrips of your choice. You 
choose these from the common spells from the occult list 
(page 311) or from other occult spells to which you have 
access. You can cast any spell in your spell repertoire by 
using a spell slot of an appropriate spell level. 

You add to this spell repertoire as you increase in level. 
Each time you get a spell slot (see Table 3-6), you add a 
spell to your spell repertoire of the same level. At 2nd level, 
you select another 1st-level spell; at 3rd level, you select 
two 2nd-level spells, and so on. When you add spells, you 
might add a higher-level version of a spell you already 
have, so you can cast a heightened version of that spell. 

Though you gain them at the same rate, your spell slots 
and the spells in your spell repertoire are separate. If a 
feat or other ability adds a spell to your spell repertoire, 
it wouldn't give you another spell slot, and vice versa. 


SWAPPING SPELLS IN Your REPERTOIRE 

As you gain new spells in your repertoire, you might 
want to replace some of the spells you previously learned. 
Each time you gain a level and learn new spells, you can 
swap out one of your old spells for a different spell of the 
same level. This spell can be a cantrip. You can also swap 
out spells by retraining during downtime (page 481). 


COMPOSITION SPELLS 


You can infuse your performances with magic to create 
unique effects called compositions. Compositions are 
a special type of spell that often require you to use the 
Performance skill when casting them. Composition spells 
are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus 
spell, and you start with a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You 
refill your focus pool during your daily preparations, and 
you can regain 1 Focus Point by spending 10 minutes using 
the Refocus activity to perform, write a new composition, 
or otherwise engage your muse. 

Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your 
level rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells don’t 
require spell slots, and you can’t cast them using spell 
slots. Taking feats can give you more focus spells and 
increase the size of your focus pool, though your focus 
pool can never hold more than 3 Focus Points. The full 
rules for focus spells appear on page 300. 

You learn the counter performance composition spell 
(page 386), protecting against auditory and visual effects. 


Composition GANTRIPS 
Composition cantrips are special composition spells that 
don’t cost Focus Points, so you can use them as often as you 
like. Composition cantrips are in addition to the cantrips 
you choose from the occult list. Generally, only feats can 
give you more composition cantrips. Unlike other 
cantrips, you can’t swap out composition cantrips 
gained from bard feats at a later level, unless you 
swap out the specific feat via retraining (page 481). 

You learn the inspire courage composition 
cantrip (page 386), which boosts your allies’ 
attacks, damage, and defense against fear. 


MUSES 


As a bard, you select one muse at 1st level. This muse leads 
you to great things, and might be a physical creature, a 
deity, a philosophy, or a captivating mystery. 


ENIGMA 

Your muse is a mystery, driving you to uncover the hidden 
secrets of the multiverse. If your muse is a creature, it 
might be a dragon or otherworldly being; if a deity, it 
might be Irori or Nethys. You gain the Bardic Lore feat 
and add true strike to your spell repertoire. 


Maestro 
Your muse is a virtuoso, inspiring you to greater heights. 


If it’s a creature, it might be a performance-loving creature 
such as a choral angel or lillend azata; if a deity, it might 
be Shelyn. As a bard with a maestro muse, you are an 
inspiration to your allies and confident of your musical and 
oratorical abilities. You gain the Lingering Composition feat 
and add soothe to your spell repertoire. 


PoLyMATH 

Your muse is a jack of all trades, flitting between skills and 
pursuits. If it’s is a creature, it might be an eclectic creature 
like a fey; if a deity, it might be Desna or Calistria. As a bard 
with a polymath muse, you are interested in a wide array of 
topics but rarely dedicated to any one, and you rarely make 
up your mind—you want to try everything. You gain the 
Versatile Performance feat and add unseen servant to your 
spell repertoire. 


DATHFIND E RULEBOOK & 
E M — —9 E lll 


Cantrips 1st 
D 


Level 


Ey uu n m 
z e e G G O 


=k 
dE- 


= e 
CO» O1 


=L 
N 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO n9 


O1 O1! CO! CO! O1! O1! O1 CO! O1! O1 O1! CO! CO! CO! CO! CO! CO! C1 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO n9. | 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO n9. | 

Co CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO n9. | 


mg. . 
CO œ 


20 S 3 3 3 3 


CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 2 | 
C) CO CO CO CO CO CO CO n9 | 


Co CO CO CO CO CO CO n9 | 
Co c) CO CO n9 | 


3 3 3 


* The magnum opus class feature gives you a 10th-level spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots. 


BARD FEATS eND 


At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a bard 
class feat. These begin on page 99. 


SKILL FEATS END 
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a 
skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and 
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the 
corresponding skill to select a skill feat. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


LIGHTNING REFLEXES 3RD 


Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank in 
Reflex saves increases to expert. 


SIGNATURE SPELLS 3RD 


Experience allows you to cast some spells more flexibly. 
For each spell level you have access to, choose one spell of 
that level to be a signature spell. You don't need to learn 
heightened versions of signature spells separately; instead, 
you can heighten these spells freely. If you've learned a 
signature spell at a higher level than its minimum, you 
can also cast all its lower-level versions without learning 
those separately. If you swap out a signature spell, you 
can choose a replacement signature spell of the same spell 
level at which you learned the previous spell. You can 
also retrain specifically to change a signature spell to a 


different spell of that level without swapping any spells; 
this takes as much time as retraining a spell normally does. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your 
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained 
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in 
which you're already trained to expert. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase 
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you're 
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to 
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in 
which you're already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At Sth level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 
if it starts out below 18. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at Sth level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of feats is in your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2. 


EXPERT SPELLCASTER 7TH 


Your proficiency ranks for occult spell attack rolls and 
spell DCs increase to expert. 


GREAT FORTITUDE STH 


Your physique is incredibly hardy. Your proficiency rank 
for Fortitude saves increases to expert. 


RESOLVE STH 


You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency 
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a 
success at a Will save, you get a critical success instead. 


BARD WEAPON EXPERTISE ATH 


You have become thoroughly adept with bardic weapons. 
You gain expert proficiency in simple weapons and 
unarmed attacks, plus the longsword, rapier, sap, shortbow, 
shortsword, and whip. When you critically succeed at an 
attack roll using one of these weapons or an unarmed attack 
while one of your compositions is active, you apply the critical 
specialization effect for that weapon or unarmed attack. 


VIGILANT SENSES ATH 


Through your adventures, you've developed keen 
awareness and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank 
for Perception increases to master. 


LIGHT ARMOR EXPERTISE 13TH 


You've learned how to dodge while wearing light or 
no armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and 
unarmored defense increase to expert. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 13TH 


You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the 
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an 
expert. This damage increases to 3 damage if you’re a 
master, and 4 damage if you’re legendary. 


MASTER SPELLCASTER ISTH 


You’ve mastered the occult. Your proficiency ranks for 
occult spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to master. 


GREATER RESOLVE 17TH 


Your unbelievable training grants you mental resiliency. 
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to legendary. 
When you roll a success on a Will save, you get a critical 
success. When you roll a critical failure on a Will save, you 
get a failure instead. When you roll a failure on a Will save 
against a damaging effect, you take half damage. 


MAGNUM OPUS 19TH 


You have tuned your spellcasting to the highest caliber. 
Add two common 10th-level occult spells to your 
repertoire. You gain a single 10th-level spell slot you can 
use to cast one of those two spells using bard spellcasting. 
You don’t gain more 10th-level spells as you level up, 
unlike other spell slots, and you can’t use 10th-level slots 
with abilities that give you more spell slots or that let you 
cast spells without expending spell slots. 


KEY TERMS 

You'll see the following key terms in many bard class features. 

Composition: To cast a composition cantrip or focus 
spell, you use a type of Performance (page 250). If the spell 
includes a verbal component, you must use an auditory 
performance, and if it includes a somatic component, you 
must use a visual one. The spell gains all the traits of the 
performance you used. You can cast only one composition 
spell each turn, and you can have only one active at a time. 
If you cast a new composition spell, any ongoing effects 
from your previous composition spell end immediately. 

Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak 
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come 
from metamagic feats. You must use a metamagic action 
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you 
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other 
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of 
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a 
metamagic action are part of the spell's effect, not of the 
metamagic action itself. 


LEGENDARY SPELLCASTER ISTH 


Your command of occult magic is the stuff of legends. 
Your proficiency ranks for occult spell attack rolls and 
spell DCs increase to legendary. 


BARD FEATS 

At every level that you gain a bard feat, you can select one 
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites 
before selecting the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


BARDIC LORE FEAT 1 
Prerequisites enigma muse 

Your studies make you informed on every subject. You 
are trained in Bardic Lore, a special Lore skill that can be 
used only to Recall Knowledge, but on any topic. If you 
have legendary proficiency in Occultism, you gain expert 
proficiency in Bardic Lore, but you can’t increase your 
proficiency rank in Bardic Lore by any other means. 


LINGERING COMPOSITION 
E 

Prerequisites maestro muse 
By adding a flourish, you make your compositions last longer. 
You learn the lingering composition focus spell (page 387). 
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


REACH SPELL *> FEAT1 


You can extend your spells' range. If the next action you use is 
to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell's range by 


FEAT 1 


| THE ABE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


= TE DEMS: = iam e i 2’ sper tem 
) CORE RULEBOOK 4j 


"Ug 


BARD FEATS | 30feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if the spell normally has a range of touch, 
If you need to look up a bard you extend its range to 30 feet. 
feat by name instead of by level, 


use this table. | VERSATILE PERFORMANCE FEAT 1 
| BARD f 

Feat Level Prerequisites polymath muse 
Allegro 14 You can rely on the grandeur of your performances rather than ordinary social skills. 
Bardic Lore 1 You can use Performance instead of Diplomacy to Make an Impression and instead of 
Cantrip Expansion 2 Intimidation to Demoralize. You can also use an acting Performance instead of Deception to 
Deep Lore 18 Impersonate. You can use your proficiency rank in Performance to meet the requirements 
Dirge of Doom 6 of skill feats that require a particular rank in Deception, Diplomacy, or Intimidation. 
Eclectic Polymath 12 


Eclectic Skill 8 END LEVEL 


Effortless Concentration 16 


Esoteric Polymath 2 CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT 2 
Eternal Composition 18 

Fatal Aria 20 Study broadens your range of simple spells. Add two additional cantrips from your spell list 
Harmonize 6 to your repertoire. 


House of Imaginary Walls 10 
Impossible Polymath 18 ESOTERIC POLYMATH FEAT 2 


Inspire Competence 
Inspire Defense 
Inspire Heroics 
Inspirational Focus 
Know-It-All 

Lingering Composition 
Loremaster’s Etude 
Melodious Spell 
Multifarious Muse 
Perfect Encore 
Quickened Casting 
Reach Spell 

Soothing Ballad 
Steady Spellcasting 
Studious Capacity 
Symphony of the Muse 
Triple Time 

True Hypercognition 
Unusual Composition 
Versatile Performance 
Versatile Signature 


ES 
Prerequisites polymath muse 
You keep a book of occult spells, similar to a wizard's spellbook, and can use its spells to 
supplement your spell repertoire. Add all the spells in your repertoire to this book for free. 
You can use the Occultism skill to Learn Spells (page 238) and add them to your spellbook by 
paying the appropriate cost, similar to a wizard. 

During your daily preparations, choose any one spell from your book of occult spells. If that 
spell is already in your spell repertoire, you can treat it as an additional signature spell that 
day. If it isn't in your repertoire, treat it as though it were until your next daily preparations. 


INSPIRE COMPETENCE FEAT2 
Prerequisites maestro muse 
You learn the inspire competence composition cantrip (page 386), which aids your allies' skills. 


LOREMASTER'S ETUDE FEAT2 
Prerequisites enigma muse 

You magically unlock memories, making them easier to recall. You learn the loremaster’s etude 
composition spell (page 387). Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


MULTIFARIOUS MUSE FEAT2 
Your muse doesn't fall into a single label. Choose a type of muse other than that of your 
own. You gain a 1st-level feat that requires that muse, and your muse is now also a muse of 
that type, allowing you to take feats with the other muse as a prerequisite. You don't gain 
any of the other effects of the muse you chose. 

Special You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you must choose a 
different type of muse other than that of your own. 


4TH LEVEL 


INSPIRE DEFENSE FEAT 4 
EU 

Prerequisites maestro muse 

You learn the inspire defense composition cantrip (page 386), which protects you and allies. 


FEAT 4 


zm You subtly weave your spellcasting into your performance. 
If the next action you take is to Cast a Spell, attempt a 
Performance check against all observers’ Perception DCs. If 
your Performance check is successful against an observer's 
Perception DC, that observer doesn’t notice that you are 
Casting a Spell, even though normally spells have sensory 
manifestations that would make spellcasting obvious 
to those around you, and verbal, somatic, and material 
components are extremely overt. You hide all of these as part 
of an ordinary performance. 

This hides only the spells spellcasting actions and 
manifestations, not its effects, so an observer might still see a 
ray streak out from you or see you vanish. 


TRIPLE TIME 


You learn the triple time composition cantrip (page 387), 
which speeds up you and your allies for a round. 


VERSATILE SIGNATURE 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


Prerequisites polymath muse 

While most bards are known for certain signature 
performances and spells, you're always tweaking your 
available repertoire. When you make your daily preparations, 
you can change one of your signature spells to a different 
spell of that level from your repertoire. 


DIRGE OF DOOM 


You alee the dirge of doom composition cantrip (page 386), 
which frightens your enemies. 


HARMONIZE 9 


FEAT 6 


| BARD | CONCENTRATE | MANIPULATE | METAMAGIC | 
Prerequisites maestro muse 


You can perform multiple compositions simultaneously. If your 
next action is to cast a composition, it becomes a harmonized 
composition. Unlike a normal composition, a harmonized 
composition doesn't end if you cast another composition, 
and you can cast another composition on the same turn as 
a harmonized one. Casting another harmonized composition 
ends any harmonized composition you have in effect. 


STEADY SPELLCASTING 


| BARD | 
You dont lose spells easily. If a reaction would disrupt your 
spellcasting action, attempt a DC 15 flat check. If you succeed, 


your action isn't disrupted. 


8TH LEVEL 


ECLECTIC SKILL FEAT8 
E 
Prerequisites polymath muse, master in Occultism 


FEAT6 


Sd gl 


JIPMENT 
SPELLS 
Wi 


4 
THE AGE OF 


LosT OMENS 


a THE 
_ GAME 


SAMPLE eo 


(7 / 
v. d 
i p 


A 


DANCER 


Through myriad styles of dance, you inspire your 
allies and channel otherworldly magic. 


ío y > E 


ABILITY SCORES 
Make Charisma highest, followed by Dexterity. Add to 
Constitution for more health and to Intelligence for skills. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Athletics, Diplomacy, Medicine, Occultism, 
Performance 


MUSE 


Maestro 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Inspire Competence (2nd), Triple Time (Ath), Allegro (14th) 


SPELL REPERTOIRE 
1st color spray, illusory disguise, soothe; Cantrips detect 
magic, ghost sound, light, mage hand, read aura 


Your broad experiences translate to a range of skills. Your 
proficiency bonus to untrained skill checks is equal to your 
level. You can attempt any skill check that normally requires 
you to be trained, even if you are untrained. If you have 
legendary proficiency in Occultism, you can attempt any skill 
check that normally requires you to have expert proficiency, 
even if untrained or trained. 


INSPIRE HEROICS FEAT8 
Prerequisites maestro muse 

Your performances inspire even greater deeds in your allies. 
You learn the inspire heroics metamagic focus spell (page 387). 
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


KNOW-IT-ALL FEAT 8 
Prerequisites enigma muse 

When you succeed at a check to Recall Knowledge, you gain 
additional information or context. When you critically succeed 
at a check to Recall Knowledge, at the GM's discretion you might 
gain even more additional information or context than normal. 


10TH LEVEL 


HOUSE OF IMAGINARY WALLS FEAT 10 
You erect an imaginary barrier others believe to be real. You learn 
the house of imaginary walls composition cantrip (page 386). 


QUICKENED CASTING © FEAT 10 
Frequency once per day 
If your next action is to cast a bard cantrip or a bard spell 
that is at least 2 levels lower than the highest-level bard 
spell slot you have, reduce the number of actions to cast it 
by 1 (minimum 1 action). 


UNUSUAL COMPOSITION «> 
Prerequisites polymath muse 

You can translate the emotion and power of a composition to 
other mediums. If your next action is to cast a composition spell, 
you can use a different kind of performance than usual for the 
composition to change any of its somatic components to verbal 
components or vice versa. As usual for composition spells, this 
changes whether the composition is auditory or visual. 


12TH LEVEL 


ECLECTIC POLYMATH FEAT 12 
Prerequisites Esoteric Polymath 

Your flexible mind can quickly shift spells. If you add a spell to 
your repertoire during your daily preparations using Esoteric 
Polymath, when you prepare again, you can choose to keep 


FEAT 10 


the new spell from Esoteric Polymath in your repertoire 
and instead lose access to another spell of the same level in 
your repertoire. 


INSPIRATIONAL FOCUS 


Your connection to your muse has granted you unusual focus. 
If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last time 
you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you Refocus 
instead of 1. 


14TH LEVEL 


ALLEGRO FEAT 14 
You can quicken your allies with a fast-paced performance. 
You learn the allegro composition cantrip (page 386). 


SOOTHING BALLAD 
You soothe your allies’ wounds with the power of your 
performance. You learn the soothing ballad composition spell 
(page 387). Increase the number of Focus Points in your 
focus pool by 1. 


TRUE HYPERCOGNITION *> 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


Prerequisites enigma muse 

Your mind works at an incredible pace. You instantly use up to 
five Recall Knowledge actions. If you have any special abilities 
or free actions that would normally be triggered when you 
Recall Knowledge, you can't use them for these actions. 


16TH LEVEL 


EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION <> FEAT 16 
Trigger Your turn begins. 

You can maintain a spell with hardly a thought. You immediately 
gain the effects of the Sustain a Spell action, allowing you to 
extend the duration of one of your active bard spells. 


STUDIOUS CAPACITY 

Prerequisites enigma muse, legendary in Occultism 
Your continued study of occult magic has increased your 
magical capacity, allowing you to cast spells even when it seems 
impossible. You can cast one spell each day even after you've 
run out of spell slots of the appropriate spell level, but you can't 
use this ability to cast a spell of your highest spell level. 


18TH LEVEL 


LORE FEAT 18 


FEAT 16 


Your repertoire is vast, containing far more spells than usual. 
Add one spell to your repertoire of each level you can cast. 


ETERNAL COMPOSITION FEAT 18 
Prerequisites maestro muse 

The world is a stage upon which you are always playing. You 
are permanently quickened; you can use your extra action 
only to cast a composition cantrip that requires 1 action to 
cast. While in exploration mode, you can declare that you are 
performing an eligible composition cantrip while using any 
exploration tactic. Even before your first turn in a combat 
encounter, that cantrip is active as if you had cast it on your 
previous turn. 


IMPOSSIBLE POLYMATH FEAT 18 
Prerequisites trained in Arcana, Nature, or Religion; 


Esoteric Polymath 
Your esoteric formulas are so unusual that they allow you to 
dabble in magic from diverse traditions that other bards don't 
understand. As long as you're trained in Arcana, you can add 
arcane spells to your book from Esoteric Polymath; as long 
as yourre trained in Nature, you can add primal spells to your 
book; and as long as you are trained in Religion, you can add 
divine spells to your book. 

Like your other spells in your book, you can add one of 
these spells from another tradition to your repertoire as an 
occult spell each day using Esoteric Polymath, but you can't 
retain any spells from another tradition when you prepare 
again, even if you have Eclectic Polymath. 


20TH LEVEL 


FATAL ARIA FEAT 20 
Your songs overwhelm the target with unbearable emotion, 
potentially striking them dead on the spot. You learn the 
fatal aria composition spell (page 386). Increase the number 
of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


PERFECT ENCORE 
Prerequisites magnum opus 
You develop another incredible creation. You gain an additional 
10th-level spell slot. 


SYMPHONY OF THE MUSE 
Prerequisites Harmonize 
You have learned how to weave countless performances 
together into a solo symphony with multitudinous 
effects. You are no longer limited to a single composition 
each turn or a single composition at a time; when you 
use a new composition, all previous compositions’ 
effects continue for their remaining duration. 


FEAT 20 


FEAT 20 


f 


! C . — 
| PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 2 


à CHAMPION 


provide certainty and hope to the innocent. You have powerful defenses that you share freely (W 
with your allies and innocent bystanders, as well as holy power you use to end the threat of 
evil. Your devotion even attracts the attention of holy spirits who aid you on your journey. 


KEY ABILITY | HIT POINTS | 
STRENGTH OR DEXTERITY | 10 plus your Constitution modifier 


At 1st level, your class gives you | You increase your maximum number of 
an ability boost to your choice of HP by this number at 1st level and every 
Strength or Dexterity. level thereafter. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You confront enemies in hand-to-hand combat while carefully positioning yourself 
to protect your allies. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


You are a voice of hope, striving to reach a peaceful solution that strengthens bonds 
and yields good results for all. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


You overcome barriers both physical and spiritual, providing inspiration to your 
allies through your actions and—when your fellow adventurers ask for it—providing 
moral and ethical guidance. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You spend much of your time in solemn prayer and contemplation, rigorous training, 
charity work, and fulfilling the tenets of your code, but that doesn’t mean there isn’t 
time to take up a craft or hobby. 


YOU MIGHT... 

* Believe there is always hope that good will triumph over evil, no matter how grim 
the odds. 

* Know the ends don't justify the means, since evil acts increase the power of evil. 

* Have a strong sense of right and wrong, and grow frustrated when greed or 
shortsightedness breeds evil. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* See you as a symbol of hope, especially in a time of great need. 

* Worry you secretly despise them for not living up to your impossible standard, or 
that you are unwilling to compromise when necessary. 

* Know that you've sworn divine oaths of service they can trust you to keep. 


You are an emissary of a deity, a devoted servant who has taken up a weighty 
mantle, and you adhere to a code that holds you apart from those around 
you. While champions exist for every alignment, as a champion of good, you 


ein: SE mf OF] 


CLASSES 


ee ea cam el 


- BACKGROL 
| CLASSES 


EA V." 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES — |. EQUIPMENT 
At 1st level, you gain the á 
listed proficiency ranks in he 
the following statistics. You ae 
are untrained in anything 


SPELLS 


x 


not listed unless you gain a — THE AGE OF 
better proficiency rank in some | LOST OMENS 
other way. " 


PERCEPTION PLAYING THE 
GAME 


Trained in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 


Expert in Fortitude 
Trained in Reflex 
Expert in Will 


SKILLS E TREASURE 


Trained in Religion 

Trained in one skill determined 
by your choice of deity 

Trained in a number of 
additional skills equal to 
2 plus your Intelligence 
modifier 


ATTACKS 


Trained in simple weapons 
Trained in martial weapons 
Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Trained in all armor 
Trained in unarmored defense 


CLASS DC 


Trained in champion class DC 


SPELLS 


Trained in divine spell attacks 
Trained in divine spell DCs 


sine i icu. 


IE Rm i DEIN em E T EET 
DATHFINI ER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
e LE — —_ TM rae T a iil 


TABLE 3-7: CHAMPION ADVANCEMENT 


Your 


Class Features 

1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, champions 
code, deity and cause, deific weapon, champions reaction, 
devotion spells, champion feat, shield block 

2 Champion feat, skill feat 

3 Divine ally, general feat, skill increase 

4 Champion feat, skill feat 

5 Ability boosts, ancestry feat, skill increase, 
weapon expertise 

6 Champion feat, skill feat 

7 Armor expertise, general feat, skill increase, 
weapon specialization 

8 Champion feat, skill feat 

9 Ancestry feat, champion expertise, divine smite, 
juggernaut, lightning reflexes, skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, champion feat, skill feat 


Level 


11 Alertness, divine will, exalt, general feat, skill increase 
12 Champion feat, skill feat 
13 Ancestry feat, armor mastery, skill increase, 


weapon mastery 

14 Champion feat, skill feat 

15 Ability boosts, general feat, greater weapon 
specialization, skill increase 

16 Champion feat, skill feat 


17 Ancestry feat, champion mastery, legendary armor, 
skill increase 

18 Champion feat, skill feat 

19 General feat, hero’s defiance, skill increase 


20 Ability boosts, champion feat, skill feat 


CLASS FEATURES 


You gain these abilities as a champion. Abilities gained at 
higher levels list the requisite levels next to their names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st 
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that 
represent your basic training, noted at the start of this class. 


CHAMPION’S CODE 


You follow a code of conduct, beginning with tenets 
shared by all champions of an alignment (such as good), 
and continuing with tenets of your cause. Deities often add 
additional strictures (for instance, Torag's champions can't 
show mercy to enemies of their people, making it almost 
impossible for them to follow the redeemer cause). Only rules 
for good champions appear in this book. Tenets are listed 
in order of importance, starting with the most important. 
If a situation places two tenets in conflict, you aren't in a 


no-win situation; instead, follow the more important tenet. 
For instance, as a paladin, if an evil king asked you if you're 
hiding refugees so he could execute them, you could lie 
to him, since the tenet against lying is less important than 
preventing harm to innocents. Trying to subvert your code 
by creating a situation that forces a higher tenet to override 
a lower tenet (for example, promising not to respect 
authorities and then, to keep your word, disrespecting 
authorities) is a violation of the champion code. 

If you stray from your alignment or violate your code of 
conduct, you lose your focus pool and divine ally until you 
demonstrate your repentance by conducting an atone ritual 
(page 409), but you keep any other champion abilities that 
don't require those class features. If your alignment shifts 
but is still one allowed by your deity, your GM might let 
you retrain your cause while still following the same deity. 


Tur TeNETS oF Goon 
All champions of good alignment follow these tenets. 

* You must never perform acts anathema to your 
deity or willingly commit an evil act, such as 
murder, torture, or the casting of an evil spell. 

* You must never knowingly harm an innocent, or 
allow immediate harm to one through inaction 
when you know you could reasonably prevent it. 
This tenet doesn't force you to take action against 
possible harm to innocents at an indefinite time in 
the future, or to sacrifice your life to protect them. 


DEITY AND CAUSE 


Champions are divine servants of a deity. Choose a deity 
to follow (pages 437-440); your alignment must be one 
allowed for followers of your deity. Actions fundamentally 
opposed to your deity's ideals or alignment are anathema 
to your faith. A few examples of acts that would be 
considered anathema appear in each deity's entry. You and 
your GM determine whether other acts are anathema. 
You have one of the following causes. Your cause must 
match your alignment exactly. Your cause determines 
your champion's reaction, grants you a devotion spell 
(page 107), and defines part of your champion's code. 


Paran (Lawrut Goon] 
You’re honorable, forthright, and committed to pushing 
back the forces of cruelty. You gain the Retributive Strike 
champion’s reaction and the lay on hands devotion spell. 
After the tenets of good, add these tenets: 
* You must act with honor, never taking advantage 
of others, lying, or cheating. 
* You must respect the lawful authority of legitimate 
leadership wherever you go, and follow its laws. 


Reveemer (NeurRat Goon) 

Yow’re full of kindness and forgiveness. You gain the 
Glimpse of Redemption champion’s reaction and the lay on 
hands devotion spell. After the tenets of good, add these: 


* You must first try to redeem those who commit 
evil acts, rather than killing them or meting out 
punishment. If they then continue on a wicked path, 
you might need to take more extreme measures. 

* You must show compassion for others, regardless 
of their authority or station. 


Lierator [EnAoric Goon) 

You defend the freedom of others. You gain the Liberating 
Step champion’s reaction and the lay on hands devotion 
spell. After the tenets of good, add these tenets: 

* You must respect the choices others make over their 
own lives, and you can't force someone to act in a 
particular way or threaten them if they don't. 

* You must demand and fight for others? freedom to 
make their own decisions. You may never engage 
in or countenance slavery or tyranny. 


DEIFIC WEAPON 


You zealously bear your deity's favored weapon. If it's 
uncommon, you gain access to it. If it's an unarmed 
attack with a d4 damage die or a simple weapon, increase 
the damage die by one step (d4 to d6, d6 to d8, d8 to 
d10, d10 to d12). 


CHAMPION’S REACTION 


Your cause gives you a special reaction: Retributive US E 


Strike for paladin, Glimpse of Redemption for 
redeemer, or Liberating Step for liberator. 


Trigger An enemy damages your ally, and both are within 
15 feet of you. 

You protect your ally and strike your foe. The ally gains 

resistance to all damage against the triggering damage 

equal to 2 * your level. If the foe is within reach, make a 

melee Strike against it. 


GLIMPSE OF REDEMPTION 2 
Trigger An enemy damages your ally, and 
both are within 15 feet of you. 
Your foe hesitates under the weight of sin as 
visions of redemption play in their mind's eye. The 
foe must choose one of the following options: 
* The ally is unharmed by the triggering damage. 
* The ally gains resistance to all damage against 
the triggering damage equal to 2 * your level. 
After the damaging effect is applied, the enemy 
becomes enfeebled 2 until the end of its next turn. 


LIBERATING STEP > 


| CHAMPION | 


Trigger An enemy damages, Grabs, or Grapples your ally, and 


both are within 15 feet of you. 


You free an ally from restraint. If the trigger was an ally 
taking damage, the ally gains resistance to all damage 
against the triggering damage equal to 2 + your level. The 
ally can attempt to break free of effects grabbing, restraining, 
immobilizing, or paralyzing them. They either attempt a new 
save against one such effect that allows a save, or attempt 
to Escape from one effect as a free action. If they can move, 
the ally can Step as a free action, even if they didn't need 
to escape. 


M a i LT 


IPMENT 


T 


| SPELLS 


* 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


DEVOTION SPELLS 


Your deity’s power grants you special divine spells called 
devotion spells, which are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 
Focus Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with a focus 
pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool during 
your daily preparations, and you regain 1 Focus Point by 
spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity to pray to 
your deity or do service toward their causes. 

Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your 
level rounded up. Certain feats can give you more focus 
spells and increase the size of your focus pool, though your 
focus pool can never hold more than 3 Focus Points. The full 
rules are on page 300. You gain a devotion spell depending 
on your cause, and you are trained in divine spell attack 
rolls and spell DCs. Your spellcasting ability is Charisma. 


CHAMPION FEATS 


At 1st level and every even-numbered level thereafter, you 
gain a champion class feat. These begin on page 109. 


SHIELD BLOCK 


You gain the Shield Block general feat (page 266), a 
reaction that lets you reduce damage with your shield. 


SKILL FEATS END 
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a 
skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and 
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the 
corresponding skill to select a skill feat. 


DIVINE ALLY 3RD 


Your devotion attracts a spirit of your deity's alignment. 
Once you choose an ally, your choice can't be changed. 

The following are divine allies: 

Blade Ally: A spirit of battle dwells within your 
armaments. Select one weapon or handwraps of mighty 
blows when you make your daily preparations. In your 
hands, the item gains the effect of a property rune. For a 
champion following the tenets of good, choose disrupting, 
ghost touch, returning, or shifting. You also gain the 
weapon’s critical specialization effect. 

Shield Ally: A spirit of protection dwells within your 
shield. In your hands, the shield’s Hardness increases by 2 
and its HP and BT increase by half. 

Steed Ally: You gain a young animal companion as a 
mount (page 214). Ordinarily, your animal companion is 
one that has the mount special ability, such as a horse. You 
can select a different animal companion (GM’s discretion), 
but this ability doesn’t grant it the mount special ability. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a 


skill increase. You can use this increase either to increase 
your proficiency rank to trained in one skill you're 
untrained in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one 
skill in which you're already trained to expert. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase 
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you're 
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to 
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in 
which you're already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, boost four different 
ability scores. You can use these boosts to increase ability 
scores above 18. Boosting an ability score increases it by 1 
if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 if it starts out below 18. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at Sth level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2. 


WEAPON EXPERTISE STH 


You’ve dedicated yourself to learning the intricacies of 
your weapons. Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons, 
martial weapons, and unarmed attacks increase to expert. 


ARMOR EXPERTISE 7TH 


You have spent so much time in armor that you know 
how to make the most of its protection. Your proficiency 
ranks for light, medium, and heavy armor, as well as for 
unarmored defense, increase to expert. You gain the armor 
specialization effects of medium and heavy armor. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH 


You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the 
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an 
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and to 
4 if you’re legendary. 


CHAMPION EXPERTISE STH 


Prayers strengthen your divine power. Your proficiency 
ranks for your champion class DC and divine spell attack 
rolls and DCs increase to expert. 


DIVINE SMITE STH 


Your champion’s reaction improves. 

Paladin: You surround evil targets in a punishing halo. 
If you hit with your Retributive Strike, the target takes 
persistent good damage equal to your Charisma modifier. 

Redeemer: A guilty conscience assails foes who spurn 
your Glimpse of Redemption. A foe that responds to 
your Glimpse of Redemption by dealing damage takes 
persistent good damage equal to your Charisma modifier. 

Liberator: You punish those who ensnare your allies 


in bondage. If the triggering enemy was using any effects 
to make your ally grabbed, restrained, immobilized, or 
paralyzed when you used Liberating Step, that enemy takes 
persistent good damage equal to your Charisma modifier. 


JUGGERNAUT STH 


Your body is accustomed to physical hardship and 
resistant to ailments. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude 
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a 
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead. 


LIGHTNING REFLEXES STH 


Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for 
Reflex saves increases to expert. 


ALERTNESS ATH 


You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency 
rank for Perception increases to expert. 


DIVINE WILL ATH 


Your faith grants mastery of your will. Your proficiency 
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a 
success on a Will save, you get a critical success instead. 


EXALT ATH 


Your champion's reaction exalts nearby allies, allowing 
them to benefit as well. 

Paladin: When you use Retributive Strike, each ally 
within 15 feet of you with the target in their melee reach 
can spend a reaction to Strike the target with a —5 penalty. 

Redeemer: You protect multiple allies. You can apply 
the resistance granted by Glimpse of Redemption to 
yourself and all allies within 15 feet of you, including the 
triggering ally, except the resistance is reduced by 2 for all. 

Liberator: You can help your whole group get into 
position. When you use Liberating Step, if your ally doesn't 
attempt to break free of an effect, you and all allies within 
15 feet can Step, in addition to the triggering ally. 


ARMOR MASTERY 13TH 


Your skill with armor improves, helping you avoid more 
blows. Your proficiency ranks for light, medium, and heavy 
armor, as well as for unarmored defense, increase to master. 


WEAPON MASTERY 13TH 


You fully understand your weapons. Your proficiency 
ranks for simple weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed 
attacks increase to master. 


GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION ISTH 


Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an 
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary. 


CHAMPION MASTERY 17TH 


You've mastered your arsenal of champion techniques 


KEY TERMS 

You'll see these terms in many champion abilities. 

Flourish: Flourishes are techniques that require too 
much exertion to perform a large number in a row. You 
can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn. 

Metamagic: These actions tweak your spells. You must 
use a metamagic action directly before Casting the Spell 
you want to alter. If you use any action (including free 
actions and reactions) other than Cast a Spell directly 
after, you waste the benefits of the metamagic action. 
Effects added by a metamagic action are part of the 
spell's effect, not of the metamagic action. 

Oath: Oaths add an additional tenet to your code. You 
can usually have only one feat with this trait. 


and divine spells. Your proficiency ranks for your 
champion class DC and for divine spell attack rolls and 
spell DCs increase to master. 


LEGENDARY ARMOR 17TH 


You shield yourself with steel as easily as with faith. Your 
proficiency ranks for light, medium, and heavy armor, as 
well as for unarmored defense, increase to legendary. 


HERO’S DEFIANCE ISTH 


You can defy fate and continue fighting as long as 
you have divine energy. You gain the hero’s defiance 
devotion spell. 


CHAMPION FEATS 

At each level that you gain a champion feat, you can 
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any 
prerequisites before selecting the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


DEITY’S DOMAIN FEAT 1 
Em 

You embody an aspect of your deity. Choose one of your 
deity's domains from those listed on page 441. You gain the 
domain's initial domain spell as a devotion spell. 


RANGED REPRISAL 
ETT 

Prerequisites paladin cause 
You can use Retributive Strike with a ranged weapon. In 
addition, if the foe that triggered your reaction is within 5 feet 
of your reach but not in your reach, as part of your reaction 
you can Step to put the foe in your reach before making a 
melee Retributive Strike. 


UNIMPEDED STEP 
ET 


Prerequisites liberator cause 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


EQUIPMENT 


T 


‘SPELLS 


HE AGE OF 
_ LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


HFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
aa ee - rae T E T a n ail 
CHAMPION FEATS With a burst of divine liberation, your ally's movement from your Liberating Step is 


If you need to look up a 
champion feat by name instead 
of by level, use this table. 


Feat Level 
Advanced Deitys Domain 8 
Affliction Mercy 12 
Anchoring Aura 14 
Attack of Opportunity 6 
Aura of Courage 4 
Aura of Faith i2 
Aura of Life 14 
Aura of Righteousness 14 
Aura of Vengeance 14 
Auspicious Mount 16 
Blade of Justice 12 
Celestial Form 18 
Celestial Mount 20 
Champion's Sacrifice 12 
Deity’s Domain 1 
Devoted Focus 10 
Divine Grace 2 
Divine Health 4 
Divine Reflexes 14 
Divine Wall i2 
Dragonslayer Oath 2 
Fiendsbane Oath 2 
Greater Mercy 8 
Heal Mount 8 
Imposing Destrier 10 
Instrument of Zeal 16 
Lasting Doubt 12 
Liberating Stride 12 
Litany against Sloth 10 
Litany against Wrath 6 
Litany of Righteousness 14 
Loyal Warhorse 6 
Mercy 4 
Quick Shield Block 8 
Radiant Blade Master 20 
Radiant Blade Spirit 10 
Ranged Reprisal 1 
Second Ally 8 
Sense Evil 8 
Shield Paragon 20 
Shield of Grace 16 
Shield of Reckoning 10 
Shield Warden 6 
Shining Oath 2 
Smite Evil 6 
Ultimate Mercy 18 
Unimpeded Step 1 
Vengeful Oath 2 
Weight of Guilt 1 
Wyrmbane Aura 14 


unaffected by difficult terrain, greater difficult terrain, narrow surfaces, and uneven ground. 


WEIGHT OF GUILT FEAT 1 
ENT 

Prerequisites redeemer cause 

Guilt clouds the minds of those who ignore your Glimpse of Redemption. Instead of making 
the triggering creature enfeebled 2, you can make it stupefied 2 for the same duration. 


END LEVEL 


DIVINE GRACE > FEAT 2 
Í CHAMPION | 

Trigger You attempt a save against a spell, before you roll. 

You call upon your deity's grace, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to the save. 


DRAGONSLAYER OATH FEAT 2 
Prerequisites tenets of good 
You've sworn to slay evil dragons. Add the following tenet to your code after the others: “You 
must slay evil dragons you encounter as long as you have a reasonable chance of success.” 
Your Retributive Strike gains a +4 circumstance bonus to damage against an evil dragon, or 
+6 if you have master proficiency with the weapon you used. Your Glimpse of Redemption's 
resistance against damage from an evil dragon is 7 + your level. If you use Liberating Step 
triggered by an evil dragon, your ally gains a +4 circumstance bonus to checks granted by 
your Liberating Step, and the ally can Step twice afterward. 
You don't consider evil dragons to be legitimate authorities, even in nations they rule. 


FIENDSBANE OATH FEAT 2 
Prerequisites tenets of good 
You've sworn an oath to banish the corruption of fiends to the dark planes they call home. 
Add the following tenet to your champion's code after the other tenets: "You must banish 
or slay fiends you come across as long as you have a reasonable chance of success; in the 
incredibly unlikely event you find a good fiend, you don't have to banish or kill it.” 

Your Retributive Strike gains a +4 circumstance bonus to damage against a fiend, or 
a +6 circumstance bonus if you have master proficiency with the weapon you used. Your 
Glimpse of Redemption's resistance against damage from a fiend is 7 + your level. If you 
use Liberating Step triggered by a fiend, your ally gains a +4 circumstance bonus to checks 
granted by your Liberating Step, and the ally can Step twice afterward. 

You dont consider fiends to be legitimate authorities, even in nations ruled by fiends. 


SHINING OATH FEAT 2 
Prerequisites tenets of good 
You've sworn an oath to put the undead to rest. Add the following tenet to your champion's 
code after the other tenets: "You must end the existence of undead you encounter as long as 
you have a reasonable chance of success; in the unlikely event you find a good undead, you 
can try to work out a more peaceful way to help it recover from its undead state rather than 
destroying it in combat, such as helping it complete its unfinished business and find peace.” 

Your Retributive Strike gains a *4 circumstance bonus to damage against an undead, or 
*6 if you have master proficiency with the weapon you used. Your Glimpse of Redemption's 
resistance against damage from an undead is 7 * your level. If you use Liberating Step 
triggered by an undead, your ally gains a *4 circumstance bonus to checks granted by your 
Liberating Step, and the ally can Step twice afterward. 

You don't consider undead to be legitimate authorities, even in nations ruled by undead. 


VENGEFUL OATH 


FEAT 2 


DIVINE HEALTH FEAT 4 


[CHAMPION | OATH 


Prerequisites paladin cause 


Prerequisites tenets of good 


You've sworn an oath to hunt down wicked evildoers and 
bring them to judgment. Add the following tenet to your code 
after the others: "You must hunt down and exterminate evil 
creatures that have committed heinous atrocities as long as 
you have a reasonable chance of success and aren't engaged 
in a mission that would prevent your doing so.” 

You can use lay on hands to damage a creature you witness 
harming an innocent or a good ally as if it were undead; in this 
case, lay on hands deals good damage instead of positive damage 
and gains the good trait. This good damage can affect non-evil 
creatures. This doesnt prevent you from healing such a creature 
with lay on hands; you choose whether to heal or harm. 


4TH LEVEL 


Your faith makes you resistant to disease, protecting you as 
you offer succor to the ill. You gain a *1 status bonus to saves 
against diseases. In addition, if you roll a success on a save 
against a disease, you get a critical success instead. 


MERCY +> 

ES 
Prerequisites devotion spell (lay on hands) 
Your touch relieves fear and restores movement. If the next action 
you use is to cast lay on hands, you can attempt to counteract a 
fear effect or an effect imposing the paralyzed condition on the 
target, in addition to the other benefits of lay on hands. 


6TH LEVEL 


FEAT 4 


AURA OF COURAGE FEAT 4 


ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY > FEAT6 


Prerequisites tenets of good 

You stand strong in the face of danger and inspire your allies 
to do the same. Whenever you become frightened, reduce the 
condition value by 1 (to a minimum of 0). At the end of your 
turn when you would reduce your frightened condition value 
by 1, you also reduce the value by 1 for all allies within 15 feet. 


Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action 
or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square 
during a move action it's using. 

You lash out at a foe that leaves an opening. Make a melee 

Strike against the triggering creature. If your attack is a 

critical hit and the trigger was a manipulate action, you disrupt 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 


FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


aN y 


SAMPLE CHAMPION 


— ey O — 


LS 


E a 
REDEEMER 


Your truth and compassion glow strong as the sun, 
bringing the evil into the light of your goddess, the 
Dawnflower. 


ABILITY SCORES 
Take a high Strength for your combat abilities, and a 
good Charisma for your devotion spells. 


SKILLS 
Athletics, Diplomacy, Religion, Medicine 


DEITY AND CAUSE 


Sarenrae, redeemer 


STARTING FEAT 
Deity’s Domain (truth) 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Shining Oath (2nd), Mercy (4th), Litany Against Wrath 
(6th), Sense Evil (8th), Devoted Focus (10th), Lasting 
Doubt (12th), Ultimate Mercy (18th) 


that action. This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple 
attack penalty, and your multiple attack penalty doesn't apply 
to this Strike. 


LITANY AGAINST WRATH FEAT 6 
Prerequisites devotion spells, tenets of good 

You excoriate a foe for its wrath against goodly creatures. You 
can cast the litany against wrath devotion spell. Increase the 
number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


LOYAL WARHORSE FEAT 6 


Prerequisites divine ally (steed) 

You and your mount have grown closer, and your loyalty to 
each other is unbreakable. The mount you gained through the 
divine ally class feature is now a mature animal companion 
(page 214). In addition, your mount never attacks you, even if 
it is magically compelled to do so. 


SHIELD WARDEN FEAT 6 


Prerequisites divine ally (shield), tenets of good 

You use your shield to protect your allies as well as yourself. 
When you have a shield raised, you can use your Shield Block 
reaction when an attack is made against an ally adjacent to 
you. If you do, the shield prevents that ally from taking damage 
instead of preventing you from taking damage, following the 
normal rules for Shield Block. 


SMITE EVIL 9 FEAT6 
Prerequisites divine ally (blade), tenets of good 
Your blade ally becomes an even more powerful tool against 
evildoers. Select one foe you can see. Until the start of your 
next turn, your Strikes with the weapon your blade ally inhabits 
against that foe deal an extra 4 good damage, increasing to 6 
if you have master proficiency with this weapon. 

If the foe attacks one of your allies, the duration extends to 
the end of that foe's next turn. If the foe continues to attack 
your allies each turn, the duration continues to extend. 


8TH LEVEL 


ADVANCED DEITY'S DOMAIN FEAT8 
| CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites Deity's Domain 

Through your conviction, you have glimpsed the deeper 
secrets of your deity's domain. You gain an advanced domain 
spell from the domain you chose with Deity’s Domain. You 
can cast that spell as a devotion spell. Increase the number of 
Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


GREATER MERCY FEAT8 
| CHAMPION | 


Prerequisites Mercy 


Your faith enhances your ability to remove conditions. When 
you use Mercy, you can instead attempt to counteract the 
blinded, deafened, sickened, or slowed conditions. 


HEAL MOUNT 
AMPIO 
Prerequisites divine ally (steed), devotion spell (lay on hands) 
Your devotion to your mount manifests as a surge of positive 
energy. When you cast lay on hands on your mount, you can 
restore 10 Hit Points, plus 10 for each heightened level. 


QUICK SHIELD BLOCK FEAT8 
Prerequisites Shield Block 

You can bring your shield into place with hardly a thought. At 
the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional reaction 
that you can use only to Shield Block. 


SECOND ALLY 

Prerequisites divine ally 
Your inner grace attracts the attention of a second protective 
spirit. Choose a second type of divine ally and gain its benefits. 


SENSE EVIL FEAT8 
Prerequisites tenets of good 

You sense evil as a queasy or foreboding feeling. When in the 
presence of an aura of evil that is powerful or overwhelming 
(page 328), you eventually detect the aura, though you might 
not do so instantly, and you can't pinpoint the location. This 
acts as a vague sense, similar to humans' sense of smell. An 
evil creature using a disguise or otherwise trying to hide its 
presence attempts a Deception check against your Perception 
DC to hide its aura from you. If the creature succeeds at its 
Deception check, it is then temporarily immune to your Sense 
Evil for 1 day. 


10TH LEVEL 


FEAT8 


FEAT8 


LITANY AGAINST SLOTH 

| CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites devotion spells, tenets of good 
You rail against the sin of sloth, turning a foe's laziness against 
it. You can cast the litany against sloth devotion spell. Increase 
the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


RADIANT BLADE SPIRIT 

| CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites divine ally (blade) 
Your divine ally radiates power, enhancing your chosen 
weapon. When you choose the weapon for your blade ally 
during your daily preparations, add the following property 
runes to the list of effects you can choose from: flaming and 
any aligned properties (anarchic, axiomatic, holy, or unholy) 
that match your cause's alignment. 


SHIELD OF RECKONING 2 

| CHAMPION | FLOURISH | 

Prerequisites champion's reaction, Shield Warden 

Trigger A foes attack against an ally matches the trigger for 
both your Shield Block reaction and your champion's reaction. 

When you shield your ally against an attack, you call upon 

your power to protect your ally further. You use the Shield 

Block reaction to prevent damage to an ally and also use your 

champion's reaction against the foe that attacked your ally. 


12TH LEVEL 


AFFLICTION MERCY FEAT 12 
| CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites Mercy 

The divine grace that flows through you grants reprieve from 
an affliction. When you use Mercy, you can instead attempt to 
counteract a curse, disease, or poison. 


AURA OF FAITH 


| CHAMPION | 
Prerequisites tenets of good 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 12 


DEVOTED FOCUS FEAT 10 


EMI 
Prerequisites devotion spells 

Your devotion is strong enough to increase your focus to 
incredible heights. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points 
since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points 


when you Refocus instead of 1. 


IMPOSING DESTRIER 

Prerequisites divine ally (steed), Loyal Warhorse 
Under your care, your mount has realized its innate potential. 
The mount you gained through the divine ally class feature is 
now a nimble or savage animal companion (page 214). During an 
encounter, even if you don't use the Command an Animal action, 
your mount can still use 1 action on your turn to Stride or Strike. 


FEAT 10 


You radiate an aura of pure belief that imbues your attacks 
and those of nearby allies with holy power. Your Strikes deal 
an extra 1 good damage against evil creatures. Also, each 
good-aligned ally within 15 feet gains this benefit on their first 
Strike that hits an evil creature each round. 


BLADE OF JUSTICE >> 

| CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites tenets of good 
You call upon divine power and make a weapon or unarmed 
Strike against a foe you have witnessed harming an ally or 
innocent. The Strike deals two extra weapon damage dice if 
the target of your Strike is evil. Whether or not the target 
is evil, you can convert all the physical damage from the 
attack into good damage, and if you are a paladin, the Strike 
applies all effects that normally apply on a Retributive 
Strike (such as divine smite). 


FEAT 12 


LASSES 


EQUIPMENT 
E 


SPELLS 
tr 


Pa 
Im 

THE ABE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
. BAME 


EASURE 


SAMPLE CHAMPION 


~= 
N 
= 
E 


LIBERATOR 


With the name of the Savored Sting on your lips, 
you free those held against their will and exact 
revenge upon their captors. 


F pU"-— 


ABILITY SCORES 

Focus on Dexterity. Charisma helps your devotion spells 
and Deception, and good Wisdom and Constitution 
improve your defenses. 


SKILLS 
Deception, Religion, Society, Stealth 


DEITY AND CAUSE 


Calistria, liberator 


STARTING FEAT 
Unimpeded Step 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Divine Grace (2nd), Aura of Courage (4th), Attack of 
Opportunity (6th), Liberating Stride (12th) 


CHAMPION'S SACRIFICE 
| CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites tenets of good 
You can suffer so that others might live. You can cast the 
champion's sacrifice devotion spell. Increase the number of 
Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


DIVINE WALL 

Requirements You are wielding a shield. 
You use your shield to harry your enemies, preventing them 
from stepping away from or around you. All spaces adjacent 
to you are difficult terrain for your enemies. 


LASTING DOUBT 

| CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites redeemer cause 
When you cast doubt upon your foes, the effect lasts longer than 
usual. After being enfeebled 2 by your Glimpse of Redemption, 
the foe is enfeebled 1 for 1 minute. If you have Weight of Guilt, 
after being stupefied 2 by your Glimpse of Redemption, the foe 
is stupefied 1 for 1 minute or until the flat check from stupefied 
causes it to lose a spell, whichever comes first. 


LIBERATING STRIDE 
| CHAMPION | 


Prerequisites liberator cause 

Instead of you taking a Step at the end of your Liberating Step, 
the triggering ally can Stride up to half their Speed. Even if 
you have exalt, only the triggering ally gains this benefit. 


14TH LEVEL 


ANCHORING AURA FEAT 14 
| CHAMPION | 


Requirements Fiendsbane Oath 

Your aura hampers fiends’ teleportation. Your aura attempts 
to counteract teleportation spells cast by fiends within 15 feet, 
using the spell level and DC of your devotion spells. 


AURA OF LIFE 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 14 


Requirements Shining Oath 

Your aura protects against necromantic effects. You and all 
allies within 15 feet gain resistance 5 to negative energy and a 
+1 status bonus to saves against necromancy effects. 


AURA OF RIGHTEOUSNESS 
| CHAMPION | 


Prerequisites tenets of good 
Your righteous aura dampens evil's might. You and all allies 
within 15 feet gain evil resistance 5. 


AURA OF VENGEANCE 
| CHAMPION | 


Requirements exalt, Vengeful Oath 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


When you call upon others to take retribution, you also guide 
their aim. When you use Retributive Strike, your allies who 
make Strikes take only a -2 penalty, instead of a -5 penalty. 


DIVINE REFLEXES FEAT 14 
At the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional 
reaction that you can use only for your champions reaction. 


LITANY OF RIGHTEOUSNESS FEAT 14 
Prerequisites tenets of good 

You call upon righteousness to expose an evil foes weakness. 
You can cast the litany of righteousness devotion spell. 
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


WYRMBANE AURA FEAT 14 
Requirements Dragonslayer Oath 

Your aura protects against destructive energies and dragons' 
breath. You and all allies within 15 feet gain resistance equal to 
your Charisma modifier to acid, cold, electricity, fire, and poison. 
If the source of one of these types of damage is a dragon's 
breath, increase the resistance to half your level. 


16TH LEVEL 


USPICIOUS MOUNT FEAT 16 


Í CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites divine ally (steed), Imposing Destrier 

Guided by your ongoing care, your steed has developed 
incredible intelligence and skill. The mount you gained 
through the divine ally class feature is now a specialized 
animal companion (page 217). You can select one of the usual 
specializations or the auspice specialization. 

Auspice mounts gain the following benefits: Your companion 
is marked by your deity's religious symbol as a sacred creature 
of your deity. Its proficiency rank in Religion increases to expert, 
it can speak the language associated with your deity's servitors 
(Celestial for champions who follow the tenets of good), and its 
Intelligence modifier increases by 2 and its Wisdom modifier by 1. 


INSTRUMENT OF ZEAL FEAT 16 


Prerequisites divine ally (blade), tenets of good 

Divine energy fills your weapon. Whenever you critically hit a 
foe with Blade of Justice or a Retributive Strike, your attack adds 
an extra damage die, and the target is slowed 1 on its next turn. 


SHIELD OF GRACE FEAT 16 


You protect an ally with both your shield and your body. 
Whenever you use the Shield Block reaction to prevent damage 
to an ally, you can evenly split the remaining damage after the 
Shield Block between the ally and yourself. 


18TH LEVEL 


CELESTIAL FORM FEAT 18 
Prerequisites tenets of good 

You take on a celestial countenance, appearing like a type 
of celestial who serves your deity; for example, as an angel, 
you would gain a halo and feathery wings. You gain a fly 
Speed equal to your Speed. You gain darkvision if you don't 
already have it, and you gain the celestial trait and the trait 
appropriate to the type of servitor you've become (archon, 
angel, or azata, for example). 


ULTIMATE MERCY 
| CHAMPION | 
Prerequisites Mercy 
Your mercy transcends the bounds of life and death. When 
you use Mercy, you can cast lay on hands on a creature that 
died since your last turn to return it to life. The target returns 
to life with 1 hit point and becomes wounded 1. You can't use 
Ultimate Mercy if the triggering effect was disintegrate or a 
death effect. 


20TH LEVEL 


CELESTIAL MOUNT FEAT 20 


| CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites divine ally (steed), tenets of good 

Your steed gains incredible celestial powers granted by your 
deity. It gains darkvision, its maximum Hit Points increase by 
AO, and it gains weakness 10 to evil damage. 

Additionally, it grows wings appropriate to a servitor of 
your deity (such as metallic wings for an archon), granting it a 
fly Speed equal to its Speed. It gains the celestial trait and the 
trait appropriate to the type of servitor it has become (archon, 
angel, or azata, for example). 


RADIANT BLADE MASTER 


| CHAMPION | 
Prerequisites divine ally (blade), Radiant Blade Spirit 

Your divine ally turns your chosen weapon into a paragon of 
its type. When you choose the weapon for your blade divine 
ally during your preparations, add the following property 
runes to the list of effects you can choose from: dancing, 


greater disrupting, and keen. 


SHIELD PARAGON 

| CHAMPION | 

Prerequisites divine ally (shield) 
Your shield is a vessel of divine protection. When you're 
wielding your chosen shield, it is always raised, even without 
you using the Raise a Shield action. Your chosen shield doubles 
its HP and BT, rather than increasing them by half. If it would 
be destroyed, it vanishes to your deity's realm instead, where 
your divine ally repairs it. During your next daily preparations, 
the shield returns to you fully repaired. 


FEAT 18 


FEAT 20 


FEAT 20 


m 


EQUIPMENT 


| = 
i. 


3 


SPELLS 
t 


[^ 
.. THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
2 GAME 


al 


KEY ABILITY 
WISDOM 


At ist level, your class gives you 
an ability boost to Wisdom. 


of their most stalwart mortal servants. Blessed with divine magic, you live the 
ideals of your faith, adorn yourself with the symbols of your church, and train 
diligently to wield your deity’s favored weapon. Your spells might protect and heal your 
allies, or they might punish foes and enemies of your faith, as your deity wills. Yours is a life 
of devotion, spreading the teachings of your faith through both word and deed. 


HIT POINTS 


8 plus your Constitution modifier 
You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 


level thereafter. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


If you’re a warpriest, you balance between casting spells and attacking with weapons— 
typically the favored weapon of your deity. If you’re a cloistered cleric, you primarily 
cast spells. Most of your spells can boost, protect, or heal your allies. Depending on 
your deity, you get extra spells to heal your allies or harm your enemies. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


You might make diplomatic overtures or deliver impressive speeches. Because you’re 
wise, you also pick up on falsehoods others tell. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


You detect nearby magic and interpret any religious writing you come across. You 
might also concentrate on a protective spell for your allies in case of attack. After a 
battle or hazard, you might heal anyone who was hurt. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You might perform services at a temple, travel to spread the word of your deity, 
research scripture, celebrate holy days, or even found a new temple. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Visit the temples and holy places sacred to your faith, and have an immediate 
affinity with other worshippers of your deity. 

* Know the teachings of your religion’s holy texts and how they apply to a dilemma. 

* Cooperate with your allies, provided they don't ask you to go against divine will. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Find your devotion impressive, even if they don’t understand it. 
* Expect you to heal their wounds. 
* Rely on you to interact with other religious figures. 


| CLASSES 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


PERCEPTION 


Trained in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 


Trained in Fortitude 
Trained in Reflex 
Expert in Will 


SKILLS 


Trained in Religion 

Trained in one skill determined 
by your choice of deity 

Trained in a number of 
additional skills equal to 2 plus 
your Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 


Trained in simple weapons 

Trained in the favored weapon 
of your deity. If your deity's 
favored weapon is uncommon, 
you also gain access to 
that weapon. 

Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Untrained in all armor, though 
your doctrine might alter this 
Trained in unarmored defense 


SPELLS 


Trained in divine spell attacks 
Trained in divine spell DCs 


TARE 


3 


» THFIN! CORE RULEBOOK 3 


TABLE 3-8: CLERIC ADVANCEMENT 


Your 
Level Class Features 


1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, deity, 
divine spellcasting, divine font, doctrine 

2 Cleric feat, skill feat 

8 2nd-level spells, general feat, second doctrine, skill increase 

4 Cleric feat, skill feat 

5 3rd-level spells, ability boosts, alertness, ancestry 
feat, skill increase 

6 Cleric feat, skill feat 

7 4th-level spells, general feat, skill increase, third doctrine 

8 

9 


Cleric feat, skill feat 
5th-level spells, ancestry feat, resolve, skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, cleric feat, skill feat 

11 6th-level spells, fourth doctrine, general feat, 
lightning reflexes, skill increase 

12 Cleric feat, skill feat 

13 . 7th-level spells, ancestry feat, divine defense, skill 
increase, weapon specialization 

14 Cleric feat, skill feat 

15 8th-level spells, ability boosts, fifth doctrine, general 
feat, skill increase 

16 Cleric feat, skill feat 

17 . Sth-level spells, ancestry feat, skill increase 

18 Cleric feat, skill feat 

19 Final doctrine, general feat, miraculous spell, skill increase 

20 Ability boosts, cleric feat, skill feat 


CLASS FEATURES 


You gain these abilities as a cleric. Abilities gained at 
higher levels list requisite levels next to their names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st 
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that 
represent your basic training, noted at the start of this class. 


DEITY 


As a cleric, you are a mortal servitor of a deity you revere 
above all others. The most common deities in Pathfinder 
appear on pages 437-440, along with their alignments, 
areas of concern, and the benefits you get for being a 
cleric of that deity. Your alignment must be one allowed 
by your deity, as listed in their entry. Your deity grants 
you the trained proficiency rank in one skill and with 
the deity's favored weapon. If the favored weapon is 
uncommon, you also get access to that weapon. 

Your deity also adds spells to your spell list. You can 
prepare these just like you can any spell on the divine spell 
list, once you can prepare spells of their level as a cleric. 


Some of these spells aren't normally on the divine list, but 
they're divine spells if you prepare them this way. 


ANATHEMA 

Acts fundamentally opposed to your deity’s alignment 
or ideals are anathema to your faith. Learning or casting 
spells, committing acts, and using items that are anathema 
to your deity remove you from your deity’s good graces. 

Casting spells with the evil trait is almost always 
anathema to good deities, and casting good spells is 
likewise anathema to evil deities; similarly, casting 
chaotic spells is anathema to lawful deities, and casting 
lawful spells is anathema to chaotic deities. A neutral 
cleric who worships a neutral deity isn’t limited this 
way, but their alignment might change over time if 
they frequently cast spells or use abilities with a certain 
alignment. Similarly, casting spells that are anathema to 
the tenets or goals of your faith could interfere with your 
connection to your deity. For example, casting a spell 
to create undead would be anathema to Pharasma, the 
goddess of death. For borderline cases, you and your GM 
determine which acts are anathema. 

If you perform enough acts that are anathema to your 
deity, or if your alignment changes to one not allowed by 
your deity, you lose the magical abilities that come from 
your connection to your deity. The class features that you 
lose are determined by the GM, but they likely include 
your divine font and all divine spellcasting. These abilities 
can be regained only if you demonstrate your repentance 
by conducting an atone ritual (found on page 409). 


DIVINE SPELLCASTING 


Your deity bestows on you the power to cast divine spells. 
You can cast divine spells using the Cast a Spell activity, and 
you can supply material, somatic, and verbal components 
when casting spells (see Casting Spells on page 302). Because 
you’re a cleric, you can usually hold a divine focus (such as 
a religious symbol) for spells requiring material components 
instead of needing to use a material component pouch. 

At 1st level, you can prepare two 1st-level spells and 
five cantrips each morning from the common spells on 
the divine spell list (page 309) or from other divine spells 
to which you gain access and learn via Learn a Spell. 
Prepared spells remain available to you until you cast 
them or until you prepare your spells again. The number 
of spells you can prepare is called your spell slots. 

As you increase in level as a cleric, the number of spells 
you can prepare each day increases, as does the highest 
level of spell you can cast, as shown in Table 3-9: Cleric 
Spells per Day on page 120. 

Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell 
attack roll to see how effective they are, or your enemies 
to roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting a 
saving throw). Since your key ability is Wisdom, your 
spell attack rolls and spell DCs use your Wisdom modifier. 
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 447. 


HEIGHTENING SPELLS 

When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can 
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells. 
This increases the spell’s level, heightening it to match the 
spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements when 
they are heightened to certain levels. 


CANTRIPS 

A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn't use spell 
slots. You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times 
per day. A cantrip is always automatically heightened to 
half your level rounded up—this is usually equal to the 
highest level of cleric spell slot you have. For example, as 
a 1st-level cleric, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, and as 
a Sth-level cleric, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells. 


DIVINE FONT 


Through your deity’s blessing, you gain additional spells 
that channel either the life force called positive energy 
or its counterforce, negative energy. When 
you prepare your spells each day, you can 
prepare additional heal or harm spells, 
depending on your deity. The divine 
font spell your deity provides is listed in 
the Divine Font entry for your deity on 
pages 437—440; if both are listed, you can 
choose between heal or harm. Once you 
choose, you can't change your choice short 
of an ethical shift or divine intervention. 
Healing Font: You gain additional spell slots 
each day at your highest level of cleric spell slots. You can 
prepare only heal spells (page 343) in these slots, and the 
number of slots is equal to 1 plus your Charisma modifier. 
Harmful Font: You gain additional spell slots each day 
at your highest level of cleric spell slots. You can prepare 
only harm spells (page 343) in these slots, and the number 
of slots is equal to 1 plus your Charisma modifier. 


DOCTRINE 


Even among followers of the same deity, there are 
numerous doctrines and beliefs, which can vary 
wildly. At 1st level, you select a doctrine and gain 
the benefits of its first doctrine. The doctrines 
presented in this book are cloistered cleric and 
warpriest. Each doctrine grants you initial 
benefits at 1st level. At 3rd, 7th, 11th, 15th, 
and 19th levels, you gain the benefits granted 

by your doctrine's second, third, fourth, 

fifth, and final doctrines respectively. 


CLnisTERED CLERIC 
You are a cleric of the cloth, focusing on 
divine magic and your connection to your 
deity's domains. 

First Doctrine (1st): You gain the Domain Initiate 
cleric feat (page 121). 


Second Doctrine (3rd): Your proficiency rank for 
Fortitude saves increases to expert. 

Third Doctrine (7th): Your proficiency ranks for divine 
spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to expert. 

Fourth Doctrine (11th): You gain expert proficiency with 
your deity's favored weapon, simple weapons, and unarmed 
attacks. When you critically succeed at an attack roll using 
your deity's favored weapon, you apply the weapon's critical 
specialization effect; use your divine 


spell DC if necessary. 

Fifth Doctrine (15th): 

proficiency ranks for divine spell 

attack rolls and spell DCs 
increase to master. 


Your 


~ INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 
FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


xg PENI LR i NDI e e c 


| JSATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK j 


Your 
Level 


Cantrips 
D 2" - = 


w 
* 

UN | 
*  & 
cog | NM | 
an BN 


EN mu eu 
z e e G G O 


=k 
dE- 


= 
CO» O1 


=L 
N 
O1 O1 O1! O1 O1 O1! O1 O1 O1 O1 OI OI OI C1 O1 O1 C1 O1 


CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 


my. 
© o 
CQ) Q0 C0 C0. CO C0. COO. C0. O0. C0. C0. C0. O2. I). | 


20 5 3 3 3 


E = = = = 
y - - - - = 
3 z = = E 
3 3 = = = = 
3 3 2 = = = 
3 3 y = = = 
3 3 3 2 = 
3 3 3 3 E - 
3 3 3 3 2 = 
3 3 3 3 3 = 
3 3 3 3 3 fi 
3 3 3 3 3 i 


* Your divine font gives you additional heal or harm spells of this level. The number is equal to 1 + your Charisma modifier. 
t The miraculous spell class feature gives you a 10th-level spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots. 


Final Doctrine (19th): Your proficiency ranks for divine 
spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to legendary. 


WaAnpRIEsT 
You have trained in the more militant doctrine of your 
church, focusing on both spells and battle. 

First Doctrine (1st): You’re trained in light and medium 
armor, and you have expert proficiency in Fortitude 
saves. You gain the Shield Block general feat (page 266), 
a reaction to reduce damage with a shield. If your deity’s 
favored weapon is a simple weapon or an unarmed attack, 
you gain the Deadly Simplicity cleric feat (page 121). At 
13th level, if you gain the divine defense class feature, you 
also gain expert proficiency in light and medium armor. 

Second Doctrine (3rd): You’re trained in martial weapons. 

Third Doctrine (7th): You gain expert proficiency 
with your deity’s favored weapon, simple weapons, and 
unarmed attacks. When you critically succeed at an 
attack roll using your deity’s favored weapon, you apply 
the weapon’s critical specialization effect; use your divine 
spell DC if necessary. 

Fourth Doctrine (11th): Your proficiency ranks for 
divine spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to expert. 

Fifth Doctrine (15th): Your proficiency rank 
for Fortitude saves increases to master. When you 
roll a success at a Fortitude save, you get a critical 
success instead. 

Final Doctrine (19th): Your proficiency ranks for divine 
spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to master. 


CLERIC FEATS END 


At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a cleric 
class feat. These begin on page 121. 


SKILL FEATS END 
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a 
skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and 
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the 
corresponding skill to select a skill feat. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a 
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become 
trained in one skill you’re untrained in, or become an 
expert in one skill in which you’re already trained. 

You can use any of these skill increases you gain at 
7th level or higher to become a master in a skill in which 
you’re already an expert, and any of these skill increases 
you gain at 15th level or higher to become legendary in a 
skill in which you're already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 
At Sth level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 


score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 
if it starts out below 18. 


ALERTNESS STH 


You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency 
rank for Perception increases to expert. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry's entry in Chapter 2. 


RESOLVE STH 


You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency 
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a 
success at a Will save, you get a critical success instead. 


LIGHTNING REFLEXES ATH 


Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for 
Reflex saves increases to expert. 


DIVINE DEFENSE 13TH 


Your training and your deity protect you from harm. Your 
proficiency rank in unarmored defense increases to expert. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 13TH 


You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with your 
weapons. You deal 2 additional damage with weapons and 
unarmed attacks in which you are an expert. This damage 
increases to 3 if you’re a master, and to 4 if you’re legendary. 


MIRACULOUS SPELL ISTH 


You’re exalted by your deity and gain truly incredible spells. 
You gain a single 10th-level spell slot and can prepare a spell 
in that slot using divine spellcasting. You can’t use this spell 
slot for abilities that let you cast spells without expending 
spell slots or that give you more spell slots. You don’t gain 
more 10th-level spells as you level up, though you can take 
the Maker of Miracles feat to gain a second slot. 


CLERIC FEATS 


At each level that you gain a cleric feat, you can select one 
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites 
before selecting the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


DEADLY SIMPLICITY FEAT 1 


Prerequisites deity with a simple or unarmed attack favored 
weapon, trained with your deity's favored weapon 


KEY TERMS 
You'll see the following term in many cleric class features. 
Metamagic: These actions tweak your spells. You must 
use a metamagic action directly before Casting the Spell 
you want to alter. If you use any action (including free 
actions and reactions) other than Cast a Spell directly 
after, you waste the benefits of the metamagic action. 
Effects added by a metamagic action are part of the 
spell's effect, not of the metamagic action. 


If your deity's favored weapon is an unarmed attack (such 
as a fist, if you worship Irori) and its damage die is smaller 
than d6, instead increase its damage die size to d6. 


DOMAIN INITIATE 


f cLERIC | 

Your deity bestows a special spell related to their powers. 
Select one domain—a subject of particular interest to you 
within your religion—from your deity’s list. You gain an initial 
domain spell for that domain, a spell unique to the domain 
and not available to other clerics. Each domain's theme and 
domain spells appear in Table 8-2: Domains on page 441. 

Domain spells are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus 
Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with a focus pool 
of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool during your daily 
preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus Point by spending 10 
minutes using the Refocus activity to pray to your deity or do 
service toward their causes. 

Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your 
level rounded up. Focus spells don’t require spell slots, nor 
can you cast them using spell slots. Certain feats can give you 
more focus spells and increase the size of your focus pool, 
though your focus pool can never hold more than 3 Focus 
Points. The full rules for focus spells appear on page 300. 

Special You can select this feat multiple times, selecting a 
different domain each time and gaining its domain spell. 


HARMING HANDS FEAT 1 
Prerequisites harmful font 

The mordant power of your negative energy grows. When you 
cast harm, you roll d10s instead of d8s. 


HEALING HANDS 


pm 
Prerequisites healing font 
Your positive energy is even more vibrant and restorative. 


When you cast heal, you roll d10s instead of d8s. 


HOLY CASTIGATION 


Prerequisites good alignment 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


Your deity’s weapon is especially powerful in your hands. 
When you are wielding your deity's favored weapon, increase 
the damage die size of that weapon by one step. 


You combine holy energy with positive energy to damage 
demons, devils, and their evil ilk. Heal spells you cast damage 
fiends as though they were undead. 


EQUIPMENT 
ME 


SPELLS 
LH 


a 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


| B TREASURE 


on " 
APPENDI 


n | in 


< c SGre DEMO ere a eem cm aen TU 
HFIND CORE RULEBOOK 4 
CLERIC FEATS | REACH SPELL +> FEAT 1 


If you need to look up a cleric 
feat by name instead of by level, 
use this table. 


Feat Level 
Advanced Domain 8 
Align Armament 8 
Avatar's Audience 20 
Cantrip Expansion 2 
Cast Down 6 
Castigating Weapon 10 
Channel Smite 4 
Channeled Succor 8 
Command Undead 4 
Communal Healing 2 
Cremate Undead 8 
Deadly Simplicity 1 
Defensive Recovery 12 
Deity's Protection 14 
Directed Channel 4 
Divine Weapon 6 
Domain Focus 12 
Domain Initiate 1 
Domain Wellspring 16 
Echoing Channel 18 
Emblazon Antimagic 12 
Emblazon Armament 2 
Emblazon Energy 8 
Eternal Bane 16 
Eternal Blessing 16 
Extend Armament Alignment 14 
Fast Channel 14 
Harming Hands 1 
Healing Hands 1 
Heroic Recovery 10 
Holy Castigation 1 


Improved Command Undead 10 
Improved Communal Healing 4 
Improved Swift Banishment 18 


Maker of Miracles 20 
Metamagic Channel 20 
Necrotic Infusion 4 
Reach Spell 1 
Replenishment of War 10 
Resurrectionist 16 
Sap Life 2 
Selective Energy 6 
Shared Replenishment 12 
Steady Spellcasting 6 
Swift Banishment 14 
Turn Undead 2 
Versatile Font 2 


| CLERIC} CONCENTRATE | METAMAGIC | 


You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has 
a range, increase that spell’s range by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if 
the spell normally has a range of touch, you extend its range to 30 feet. 


BND LEVEL 


CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT 2 
pu 

You study a wider range of simple spells. You can prepare two additional cantrips each day. 
COMMUNAL HEALING FEAT2 


pEE3ETZUBESUÀ 

You're a conduit for positive energy, and as you channel it through you, it heals some of your 
minor injuries. When you cast the heal spell to heal a single creature other than yourself, 
you regain Hit Points equal to the spell level of the heal spell. 


EMBLAZON ARMAMENT 
Í CLERIC | EXPLORATION | 
Carefully etching a sacred image into a physical object, you steel yourself for battle. You 
can spend 10 minutes emblazoning a symbol of your deity upon a weapon or shield. The 
symbol doesn't fade until 1 year has passed, but if you Emblazon an Armament, any symbol 
you previously emblazoned and any symbol already emblazoned on that item instantly 
disappears. The item becomes a religious symbol of your deity and can be used as a divine 
focus while emblazoned, and it gains another benefit determined by the type of item. This 
benefit applies only to followers of the deity the symbol represents. 

e Shield The shield gains a +1 status bonus to its Hardness. (This causes it to reduce 

more damage with the Shield Block reaction.) 
* Weapon The wielder gains a *1 status bonus to damage rolls. 


SAP LIFE 


You draw the life force out of your enemies to heal your own wounds. When you cast a 
harm spell and damage at least one living creature, you regain Hit Points equal to the spell 
level of your harm spell. If you aren't a living creature, you gain no benefit from this feat. 


TURN UNDEAD FEAT 2 


f ceric | 

Undead harmed by your positive energy might flee, compelled by an innate aversion to the 
force opposite undeath. When you use a heal spell to damage undead, each undead of your 
level or lower that critically fails its save gains the fleeing condition for 1 round. 


VERSATILE FONT 
[orn 


Prerequisites harmful font or healing font, deity that allows clerics to have both fonts 
As you explore your deity's aspects, you move beyond restrictions on healing or harming. You 
can prepare either harm or heal in the spell slots gained from the harmful font or healing font. 


4TH LEVEL 


BHANNEL SMITE ITE-99- FEAT 4 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 2 


ee harmful font or healing font 
Cost Expend a harm or heal spell. 
You siphon the destructive energies of positive or negative energy through a melee attack and 


into your foe. Make a melee Strike and add the spell's damage 
to the Strikes damage. This is negative damage if you expended 
a harm spell or positive damage if you expended a heal spell. 

The spell is expended with no effect if your Strike fails or 
hits a creature that isn't damaged by that energy type (such as 
if you hit a non-undead creature with a heal spell). 


COMMAND UNDEAD <> 
CLERIC | CONCENTRATE | METAMAGIC | 
Prerequisites harmful font, evil alignment 
You grasp the animating force within an undead creature and 
bend it to your will. If the next action you use is to cast harm 
targeting one undead creature, you transform the effects of 
that harm spell. Instead of harm’s normal effects, the target 
becomes controlled by you if its level is equal to or lower than 
your level - 3. It can attempt a Will saving throw to resist being 
controlled by you. If the target is already under someone else's 
command, the controlling creature also rolls a saving throw, 
and the undead uses the better result. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected and is temporarily 
immune for 24 hours. 

Success The target is unaffected. 

Failure The undead creature becomes a minion under your 
control. The spell gains a duration of 1 minute, but it is 
dismissed if you or an ally attacks the minion undead. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the duration is 1 hour. 


FEAT 4 


DIRECTED CHANNEL 
pem 

You can shape the energy you channel in a single direction, 
reaching farther and in a more directed fashion. When you 
cast a version of harm or heal that has an area, you can make 
its area a 60-foot cone instead of a 30-foot emanation. 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


IMPROVED COMMUNAL HEALING 
Prerequisites Communal Healing 
You can direct excess channeled energy outward to benefit 
an ally. You can grant the Hit Points you would regain from 
Communal Healing to any one creature within the range of 
your heal spell instead of yourself. You can also use Communal 
Healing when you target only yourself with a heal spell, 
though if you do, you must grant the additional healing to 
someone other than yourself. 


NECROTIC INFUSION *> 
Prerequisites harmful font, evil alignment 
You pour negative energy into your undead subject to 
empower its attacks. If the next action you use is to cast harm 
to restore Hit Points to a single undead creature, the target 
then deals an additional 1d6 negative damage with its melee 
weapons and unarmed attacks until the end of its next turn. 
If the harm spell is at least 5th level, this damage increases 
to 2d6, and if the harm spell is at least 8th level, the damage 
increases to 3d6. 


FEAT 4 


CONTROLLING UNDEAD 
Controlled undead gain the minion trait. Minions can use 2 
actions per turn and can't use reactions. A minion acts on your 
turn in combat when you spend an action to issue it verbal 
commands (this action has the auditory and concentrate 
traits). If given no commands, undead minions use no actions 
except to defend themselves or to escape obvious harm. 
If left unattended for at least 1 minute, mindless undead 
minions don't act, and intelligent ones act as they please. You 
cant have more than four undead minions at a time. 


6TH LEVEL 


CAST DOWN 9 FEAT 6 
J ceric | CONCENTRATE | METAMAGIC | 

Prerequisites harmful font or healing font 

The sheer force of your faith can bring a foe crashing down. If 
the next action you use is to cast harm or heal to damage one 
creature, the target is knocked prone if it takes any damage from 
the spell. If the target critically fails its save against the spell, it 
also takes a -10-foot status penalty to its Speed for 1 minute. 


DIVINE WEAPON € FEAT6 


| cec ] 

Frequency once per turn 

Trigger You finish Casting a Spell using one of your divine 
spell slots on your turn. 

You siphon residual spell energy into a weapon you're 

wielding. Until the end of your turn, the weapon deals an 

additional 1d4 force damage. You can instead deal an additional 

1d6 damage of an alignment type that matches one of your 

deity's alignment components. As usual for aligned damage, 

this can damage only creatures of the opposite alignment. 


SELECTIVE ENERGY FEAT6 
As you call down divine power, you can prevent some enemies 
from benefiting or some allies from being hurt. When you cast 
a version of harm or heal that has an area, you can designate 
a number of creatures equal to your Charisma modifier 
(minimum 1) that are not targeted by the spell. 


STEADY SPELLCASTING 
pa 

Confident in your technique, you dont lose spells easily. If a 
reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC 
15 flat check. If you succeed, your action isn't disrupted. 


8TH LEVEL 


ADVANCED DOMAIN FEAT 8 


| anc ] 

Prerequisites Domain Initiate 

Your studies or prayers have unlocked deeper secrets of your 
deitys domain. You gain an advanced domain spell from one 


FEAT6 


CLASSES 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 


HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


" 


| B TREASURE 
^ APPENDI 

Zn 
G4 4 


DATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


SAMPLE CLERIC of your domains (as listed in Table 8-2: Domains on page 441). 
d und) > Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 
Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time, 
you must select a different advanced domain spell from a 
domain for which you have an initial domain spell. 


ALIGN ARMAMENT *$ FEAT 8 
Prerequisites chaotic, evil, good, or lawful deity 
Frequency once per round 
You bring a weapon into metaphysical concordance with your 
deity beliefs. When you select this feat, choose chaotic, evil, 
good, or lawful. Your choice must match one of your deity's 
alignment components. This action has the trait corresponding 
to the chosen alignment component. 
When you use this action, you touch a weapon. For 1 
round, that weapon deals an additional 1d6 damage of the 
chosen type to creatures of the opposed alignment. For 
example, if you chose good, the weapon would deal 
an extra 1d6 good damage to evil creatures. If you 
Align an Armament again, any previously aligned 
armament loses its additional damage. 
Special You can select this feat a second time, 
choosing your deity's other alignment component. 
When you Align an Armament, you can choose either 
alignment component. 


CHANNELED SUCCOR FEAT8 
CLERC 


Prerequisites healing font 
You can remove conditions with divine grace. You can sacrifice 
GOZREN one heal spell you've prepared in your extra slots from healing 
Following the Wind and the Waves, you protect the font to cast one of the following spells instead: remove curse, 


beauty of nature in all its forms. remove disease, remove paralysis, or restoration. The spell is 
heightened to the same level as the heal spell you sacrificed. 


4 


ABILITY SCORES CREMATE UNDEAD FEAT8 
Prioritize Wisdom and Strength. Charisma increases your 
divine font heal spells. Your positive energy sets undead alight. When you use a heal 

spell to damage undead, each undead that takes damage also 
SKILLS takes persistent fire damage equal to the spell's level. 
Athletics, Nature, Religion, Survival 

EMBLAZON ENERGY FEAT8 
DEITY 
Gozreh (alignment: LN; divine font: heal) Prerequisites Emblazon Armament 

With elemental forces, you make your emblazoned symbols 
DOCTRINE more potent. When you Emblazon an Armament, you can choose 
Warpriest from the following effects instead of the effects listed in that feat. 

ML LLLLLLII These effects have the same restrictions as the base options. 
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS * Shield Choose acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. 
Domain Initiate (water, 1st), Divine Weapon (6th) The wielder gain the shield's circumstance bonus to 
saving throws against that damage type and can use 

PREPARED SPELLS Shield Block against damage of that type. The shield 
1st gust of wind, sanctuary, heal spells from divine font; also gains resistance to that damage type equal to 
Cantrips detect magic, know direction, light, message, shield half your level if you have a domain spell with a trait 


matching that type (such as fire). 


* Weapon Choose acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. 
The weapon deals an extra 1d4 damage of that type. 
Increase this extra damage to 1d6 if you have a domain 
spell with a trait matching that type (such as fire). 


10TH LEVEL 


CASTIGATING WEAPON FEAT 10 
p 

Prerequisites Holy Castigation 

The force of your deity's castigation strengthens your body so 
you can strike down the wicked. After you damage a fiend using 
a heal spell, your weapon or unarmed Strikes deal extra good 
damage to fiends equal to half the level of the heal spell until 
the end of your next turn. This is cumulative with any good 
damage the weapon already deals (such as from a holy rune). 


FEAT 10 


HEROIC RECOVERY —— 


Prerequisites healing font, EU alignment 

The restorative power of your healing invigorates the 
recipient. If the next action you use is to cast heal targeting 
a single living creature and the target regains Hit Points from 
the spell, it also gains three bonuses until the end of its next 
turn: a +5-foot status bonus to its Speed, a +1 status bonus to 
attack rolls, and a *1 status bonus to damage rolls. 


IMPROVED COMMAND UNDEAD 
| ceric | 

Prerequisites harmful font, Command Undead, evil alignment 
Undead creatures find it all but impossible to resist your 
commands. When you use Command Undead, if the undead 
succeeds at its save but doesnt critically succeed, it is your 
minion for 1 round. If the undead fails its save, it is your 
minion for 10 minutes. If it critically fails, it is your minion for 
24 hours. 


REPLENISHMENT OF WAR 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


DOMAIN FOCUS 

Prerequisites one or more domain spells 
Your devotion to your deity's domains grows greater, and so 
does the power granted to you. If you have spent at least 2 
Focus Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 
Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1. 


EMBLAZON ANTIMAGIC 
Prerequisites Emblazon Armament 
Your deity's symbol protects against offensive magic. When 
you Emblazon an Armament, you can choose from the 
following effects instead of the effects listed in that feat. 
These effects have the same restrictions as the base options. 

* Shield When the wielder has the shield raised, they 
gain the shield's circumstance bonus to saving throws 
against magic, and they can use Shield Block against 
damage from their enemies' spells. 

* Weapon When the weapons wielder critically hits 
with the weapon, they can attempt to counteract a 
spell on their target, using half their level, rounded up, 
as the counteract level. If they attempt to do so, the 
emblazoned symbol immediately disappears. 


SHARED REPLENISHMENT 
Prerequisites Replenishment of War 
When your deity blesses your warlike acts, you can extend 
that favor to your allies. You can grant the temporary Hit Points 
from Replenishment of War to an ally within 10 feet instead 
of gaining them yourself. You can grant these temporary Hit 
Points to a different ally each time, meaning you might be able 
to grant them to multiple creatures in a single turn. 


14TH LEVEL 


DEITY'S PROTECTION FEAT 14 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


Prerequisites expert in your deity's favored weapon 


Prerequisites Advanced Domain 


Striking out against your enemies draws praise and protection 
from your deity. When you damage a creature with a Strike 
using your deity’s favored weapon, you gain a number of 
temporary Hit Points equal to half your level, or equal to your 
level if the Strike was a critical hit. These temporary Hit Points 
last until the start of your next turn. 


12TH LEVEL 


FEAT 12 


DEFENSIVE RECOVERY *9 - 


PIStequisites harmful font or Relie font 

Your faith provides temporary protection in addition to healing. 
If the next action you use is to cast harm or heal on a single 
target and the target regains Hit Points from the spell, it also 
gains a +2 status bonus to AC and saving throws for 1 round. 


When you call upon your deity's power to fulfill the promise 
of their domain, you gain divine protection. After you cast a 
domain spell, you gain resistance to all damage until the start 
of your next turn. The amount of resistance is equal to the 
level of the domain spell you cast. 


EXTEND ARMAMENT ALIGNMENT 


Prerequisites Align Armament 
The alignment you impose on a weapon lasts much longer. The 


duration of Align Armament increases to 1 minute. 


FAST CHANNEL 


Prerequisites harmful font or healing font 
Divine power is always at your fingertips, swiftly responding 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


x: 


| 
i 


CLASSES 


m 


EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 
t 


[^ 
HE AGE OF 


~ LOST OMENS 


- PLAYING THE 
E. GAME 


SAMPLE CLERIC 


— — 


PHARASMIN 


A follower of tbe Lady of Graves, you respect the 
sanctity of both life and death. 


Y " A _ 
X y 


ABILITY SCORES 


Prioritize Wisdom, with Charisma second to maximize 


your healing and help you spread the word of your faith. 


SKILLS 


Diplomacy, Medicine, Occultism, Religion 


DEITY 


Pharasma (alignment: N; divine font: heal) 


DOCTRINE 


Cloistered cleric (death domain) 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Turn Undead (2nd), Selective Energy (6th) 


PREPARED SPELLS 
1st fear, mindlink, heal spells from divine font; Cantrips 
detect magic,disrupt undead, daze, light, stabilize 


to your call. When you cast harm or heal by spending 2 
actions, you can get the effects of the 3-action version instead 
of the 2-action version. 

You can do this with harm if you have harmful font or heal 
if you have healing font (or both if you have Versatile Font). 


SWIFT BANISHMENT 2 FEAT 14 
Lom You critically hit a creature that is not on its 
home plane. 

Requirements You have a banishment spell prepared. 

The force of your blow sends your victim back to its home 
plane. You expend a banishment spell you have prepared, 
affecting the creature you critically hit without needing to 
cast the spell. The creature can attempt to resist the spell 
as normal. 


16TH LEVEL 


ETERNAL BANE FEAT 16 
Prerequisites evil alignment 

A life of evil has made you a nexus for your deity's vile power. 
You're continuously surrounded by a bane spell with a spell 
level equal to half your level (rounded up). The radius is 15 
feet, and you can't increase it. You can Dismiss the spell; if you 
do, it returns automatically after 1 minute. 


ETERNAL BLESSING 
Prerequisites good alignment 
Your good deeds have brought your deity's grace to you for 
all of eternity. You're continuously surrounded by a bless 
spell with a spell level equal to half your level (rounded 
up). The radius is 15 feet, and you can't increase it. You can 
Dismiss the spell; if you do, it returns automatically after 
1 minute. 


RESURRECTIONIST 
You can cause a creature you bring back from the brink of 
death to thrive and continue healing. When you restore Hit 
Points to a dying creature or bring a dead creature back to 
life and restore Hit Points to it, you grant that creature fast 
healing 5 for 1 minute. This fast healing ends if the creature is 
knocked unconscious. 


18TH LEVEL 


DOMAIN WELLSPRING FEAT 18 
on tes Domain Focus 

The intensity of your focus grows from the investment you've 
placed in your domains. If you have spent at least 3 Focus 
Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 3 Focus 
Points when you Refocus instead of 1. 


FEAT 16 


FEAT 16 


ECHOING CHANNEL *> FEAT 18 


CLERIC | CONCENTRATE | METAMAGIC 

When you pull forth positive or negative energy, you also 
create a smaller pocket of that energy. If the next action you 
use is to cast a 2-action harm or heal to heal or damage a single 
creature, choose one additional creature adjacent to either 
you or the target. Target that creature with a 1-action version 
of the same spell. This spell is the same level as the 2-action 
harm or heal you cast and doesn’t cost another spell slot. 


IMPROVED SWIFT BANISHMENT FEAT 18 
Prerequisites Swift Banishment 

You easily banish creatures with your weapon. You can use 
Swift Banishment as long as you have a spell slot of 5th level or 
higher remaining, even if you don't have banishment prepared. 
You must sacrifice a prepared spell of 5th level or higher, and the 
banishment effect you create is heightened to the level of that 
spell. Your weapon serves as the special material component 
of banishment, causing the target to take the -2 penalty to its 
save against any banishment you cast using Swift Banishment. 


20TH LEVEL 


AVATAR'S AUDIENCE FEAT 20 


Your extensive service has made you a lesser herald of your 


deity, which affords you certain privileges. First, any creature 
you encounter knows instinctively that you speak for 
your deity. Second, if you conduct the commune ritual to 
contact your deity, you don't have to pay any cost and you 
automatically get a critical success. Third, once per day, you 
can cast plane shift as a divine innate spell, but only to travel 
to the realm of your deity. When you cast it this way, its 
casting time is 1 minute, your religious symbol is a sufficient 
tuning fork for this spell, and you appear exactly where you 
want to be. If you're in your deity's realm due to this spell, you 
can return to the point you left when you cast it by spending 
a single action, which has the concentrate and divine traits. 


MAKER OF MIRACLES FEAT 20 
Prerequisites miraculous spell 

You are a conduit for truly deific power. You gain an additional 
10th-level spell slot. 


METAMAGIC CHANNEL € 
Deep understanding of divine revelations into the nature of 
vital essence allows you to freely manipulate the effects of 
your positive or negative energy. Use 1 metamagic action 
that you can perform that normally takes 1 action and can be 
applied to the harm or heal spell. If you use it in this way, its 
effects apply only to a harm or heal spell. 


FEAT 20 


LOST OMENS - 
LJ i. -j 


E RULEBOOK ¢ 


COR 


r 
, F i 5 


"e 


2 Pm 
- ba | 


The power of nature is impossible to resist. It can bring ruin to the stoutest 


fortress in minutes, reducing even the mightiest works to rubble, burning them 
to ash, burying them beneath an avalanche of snow, or drowning them beneath 


the waves. It can provide endless bounty and breathtaking splendor to those who respect it— 
and an agonizing death to those who take it too lightly. You are one of those who hear nature’s 
call. You stand in awe of the majesty of its power and give yourself over to its service. 


KEY ABILITY 
WISDOM 


HIT POINTS 


8 plus your Constitution modifier 
You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 
level thereafter. 


At ist level, your class gives you 
an ability boost to Wisdom. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You call upon the forces of nature to defeat your enemies and protect your allies. 
You cast spells that draw upon primal magic to protect yourself and your friends, 
heal their wounds, or summon deadly animals to fight at your side. Depending on 
your bond to nature, you might call upon powerful elemental magic or change shape 
into a terrifying beast. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


You represent balance and a reasoned approach to problems, looking for solutions 
that not only are best for the natural world, but also allow the creatures within it to 
live in harmony and peace. You often propose compromises that allow both sides to 
gain what they truly need, even if they can’t have all that they desire. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


Your nature skills are invaluable. You track down enemies, navigate the wilderness, 
and use spells to detect magical auras around you. You might even ask wild animals 
to lend their extraordinary senses and scouting abilities to your group. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You might craft magic items or potions. Alternatively, your tie to nature might lead 
you to tend a wilderness area, befriending beasts and healing the wounds caused by 
civilization. You might even teach sustainable farming and animal husbandry techniques 
that allow others to subsist off the land without harming the natural balance. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Have a deep and meaningful respect for the power of nature. 

* Be in constant awe of the natural world, eager to share it with others but wary of 
their influence upon it. 

* Treat plants and animals as allies, working with them to reach your goals. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* View you as a representative of nature, and are sure you can control it. 
* Assume you're a recluse who avoids society and cities and prefers to live in the wild. 
* Consider you a mystic, similar to a priest, but answering only to the forces of nature. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


PERCEPTION 


Trained in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 


Trained in Fortitude 
Trained in Reflex 
Expert in Will 


SKILLS 


Trained in Nature 

Trained in one skill determined 
by your druidic order 

Trained in a number of 
additional skills equal to 2 plus 
your Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 


Trained in simple weapons 
Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Trained in light armor 
Trained in medium armor 
Trained in unarmored defense 


SPELLS 


Trained in primal spell attacks 
Trained in primal spell DCs 


[pe 


LASSES 


CORE RULEBOOK 4 
-— dünn MÀ 1 


TABLE 3-10: DRUID ADVANCEMENT 
Your 
Level Class Features 
1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, 
primal spellcasting, anathema, Druidic language, 
druidic order, Shield Block, wild empathy 
2 Druid feat, skill feat 
3 2nd-level spells, alertness, general feat, great 
fortitude, skill increase 
4 Druid feat, skill feat 
5 3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat, 
lightning reflexes, skill increase 
6 Druid feat, skill feat 


7 Ath-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat, 
skill increase 

8 Druid feat, skill feat 

9 5th-level spells, ancestry feat, skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, druid feat, skill feat 

11 6th-level spells, druid weapon expertise, general 


feat, resolve, skill increase 

12 Druid feat, skill feat 

13 7th-level spells, ancestry feat, medium armor 
expertise, skill increase, weapon specialization 

14 Druid feat, skill feat 

15 8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master 
spellcaster, skill increase 

16 Druid feat, skill feat 


17 Sth-level spells, ancestry feat, skill increase 
18 Druid feat, skill feat 
19 General feat, legendary spellcaster, primal 


hierophant, skill increase 
20 Ability boosts, druid feat, skill feat 


CLASS FEATURES 

You gain these abilities as a druid. Abilities gained at 
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to 
the features’ names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st 
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies, representing 
your basic training. These proficiencies are noted at the 
start of this class. 


PRIMAL SPELLCASTING 


The power of the wild world flows through you. You can 
cast primal spells using the Cast a Spell activity, and you 
can supply material, somatic, and verbal components 
when casting spells (see Casting Spells on page 302). 
Because you’re a druid, you can usually hold a primal 
focus (such as holly and mistletoe) for spells requiring 


material components instead of needing to use a material 
component pouch. 

At 1st level, you can prepare two 1st-level spells and 
five cantrips each morning from the common spells on 
the primal spell list (page 314), or from other primal 
spells to which you gain access and learn via Learn a 
Spell. Prepared spells remain available to you until you 
cast them or until you prepare your spells again. The 
number of spells you can prepare is called your spell slots. 

As you increase in level as a druid, the number of spells 
you can prepare each day increases, as does the highest 
level of spell you can cast, as shown in Table 3-11: Druid 
Spells per Day on page 132. 

Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack 
roll to see how effective they are, or have your enemies 
roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting a 
saving throw). Since your key ability is Wisdom, your 
spell attack rolls and spell DCs use your Wisdom modifier. 
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 447. 


HEIGHTENING SPELLS 

When you gain spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can 
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells. 
This increases the spell’s level, heightening it to match the 
spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements when 
they are heightened to certain levels. 


CANTRIPS 

A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn’t use spell 
slots. You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times 
per day. A cantrip is always automatically heightened to 
half your level rounded up—this is usually equal to the 
highest level of druid spell slot you have. For example, as 
a Ist-level druid, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, and as 
a Sth-level druid, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells. 


ANATHEMA 


As stewards of the natural order, druids find affronts 
to nature anathema. If you perform enough acts that 
are anathema to nature, you lose your magical abilities 
that come from the druid class, including your primal 
spellcasting and the benefits of your order. These abilities 
can be regained only if you demonstrate your repentance 
by conducting an atone ritual (page 409). 

The following acts are anathema to all druids: 

* Using metal armor or shields. 

* Despoiling natural places. 

* Teaching the Druidic language to non-druids. 

Each druidic order also has additional anathema acts, 
detailed in the order's entry. 


DRUIDIC LANGUAGE 


You know Druidic, a secret language known to only 
druids, in addition to any languages you know through 
your ancestry. Druidic has its own alphabet. Teaching the 
Druidic language to non-druids is anathema. 


DRUIDIC ORDER 


Upon becoming a druid, you align yourself with a druidic 
order, which grants you a class feat, an order spell 
(see below), and an additional trained skill tied to your 
order. While you'll always be a member of your initial 
order, it’s not unheard of for a druid to request to study 
with other orders in search of greater understanding of 
the natural world, and PC druids are among the most 
likely to blend the powers of different orders. 

Order spells are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus 
Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with a focus 
pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool during 
your daily preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus 
Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity 
to commune with local nature spirits or otherwise tend to 
the wilderness in a way befitting your order. 

Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your 
level rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells don’t 
require spell slots to cast, and you can’t cast them using 


spell slots. Selecting druid feats can give you more focus 
spells and increase the size of your focus pool, though 
your focus pool can never hold more than 3 points. 
The full rules for focus spells appear in Chapter 7 on 
page 300. 


You have a strong connection to beasts, and you are allied 
with a beast companion. You are trained in Athletics. 
You also gain the Animal Companion druid feat. You 
gain the heal animal order spell. Committing wanton 
cruelty to animals or killing animals unnecessarily 
is anathema to your order. (This doesn’t prevent you 
from defending yourself against animals or killing them 
cleanly for food.) 

LEAF 

You revere the bounty of nature, acting as both a 
gardener and warden for the wilderness, teaching 
sustainable techniques to communities, and helping 
areas regrow after disasters or negligent humanoid 
expansion. You are trained in Diplomacy. You also gain 
the Leshy Familiar druid feat. You gain the goodberry 
order spell, and you increase the number of Focus Points 
in your focus pool by 1. Committing wanton cruelty 
to plants or fungi or killing them unnecessarily is 
anathema to your order. (This doesn’t 


against plants or fungi or harvesting 
them when necessary for survival.) 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 
FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


ROS 


TES OE Rm A ADO 


x] PATHFİNDER) CORE RULEBOOK J 


Your 
Level 


Cantrips 1st 
5 


= m = 
c Rc ea h G orn 


ec 
dE 


= e 
CO» O1 


=L 
N 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO PO 


O1 O1 O1 O1 O1! O1 OI O1 O1 CO! OI OI CO! O1 O1 C1 O1 C1 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO n9. | 
CO) CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO n9. | 

CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 9. | 


— . 
cO CO 


20 S 3 3 3 3 


G3! Co TG) co fico) co fea) co Fao! co ho | 
GO! Co BEI co fo) co fo) co I) | 
C9) C0 C02 C2 CO CO 2. | 
C) 02 002 C2 CO 9. | 
w C) CO n9 | 
| 


3 3 3 


* The primal hierophant class feature gives you a 10th-level spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots. 


STORM 

You carry the fury of the storm within you, channeling 
it to terrifying effect and riding the winds through the 
sky. You are trained in Acrobatics. You also gain the 
Storm Born druid feat. You gain the tempest surge order 
spell, and you increase the number of Focus Points in 
your focus pool by 1. Polluting the air or allowing those 
who cause major air pollution or climate shifts to go 
unpunished is anathema to your order. (This doesn’t 
force you to take action against merely potential harm 
to the environment or to sacrifice yourself against an 
obviously superior foe.) 


Wio 


The savage, uncontrollable call of the natural world 
infuses you, granting you the ability to change your 
shape and take on the ferocious form of a wild creature. 
You are trained in Intimidation. You also gain the 
Wild Shape druid feat. You gain the wild morph order 
spell. Becoming fully domesticated by the temptations 
of civilization is anathema to your order. (This doesn’t 
prevent you from buying and using processed goods or 
staying in a city for an adventure, but you can never come 
to rely on these conveniences or truly call such a place 
your permanent home.) 


SHIELD BLOCK 

You gain the Shield Block general feat (found on page 
266), a reaction that lets you reduce damage with 
your shield. 


WILD EMPATHY 


You have a connection to the creatures of the natural 
world that allows you to communicate with them on a 
rudimentary level. You can use Diplomacy to Make an 
Impression on animals and to make very simple Requests 
of them. In most cases, wild animals will give you time to 
make your case. 


DRUID FEATS END 


At 2nd level and every even-numbered level, you gain a 
druid class feat. These begin on page 133. 


SKILL FEATS 2ND 
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
feat. Skill feats appear in Chapter 5 and have the skill 
trait. You must be trained or better in the corresponding 
skill to select a skill feat. 


ALERTNESS 3RD 


Experience has made you increasingly aware of threats 
around you, and you react more quickly to danger. 
Your proficiency rank for Perception increases to expert. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


GREAT FORTITUDE 3RD 


Your physique is incredibly hardy. Your proficiency rank 
for Fortitude saves increases to expert. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your 
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained 
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in 
which you’re already trained to expert. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase 
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re 
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to 
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in 
which you’re already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 
score increases it by 1 if it's already 18 or above, or by 2 
if it starts out below 18. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at Sth level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2. 


LIGHTNING REFLEXES STH 


Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for 
Reflex saves increases to expert. 


EXPERT SPELLCASTER 7TH 


Your command of primal forces has deepened, empowering 
your spells. Your proficiency ranks for primal spell attack 
rolls and spell DCs increase to expert. 


DRUID WEAPON EXPERTISE ATH 


You have become thoroughly familiar with the weapons 
of your trade. Your proficiency ranks for all simple 
weapons and unarmed attacks increase to expert. 


RESOLVE ATH 


You've steeled your mind with incredible resolve. Your 
proficiency rank for Will saves increases to master. 
When you roll a success at a Will save, you get a 
critical success instead. 


MEDIUM ARMOR EXPERTISE 13TH 


You’ve learned to defend yourself better against attacks. 
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor, 
and unarmored defense increase to expert. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 13TH 


You've learned how to inflict greater injuries with the 
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage with 
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an expert. 
This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and to 4 if 
you're legendary. 


KEY TERMS 
You'll see the following key term in many druid 
class features. 

Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak 
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come 
from metamagic feats. You must use the metamagic action 
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you 
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other 
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of 
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a 
metamagic action are part of the spell's effect, not of the 
metamagic action itself. 


MASTER SPELLCASTER ISTH 


Primal magic answers your command. Your proficiency 
ranks for primal spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase 
to master. 


LEGENDARY SPELLCASTER ISTH 


You have developed an unparalleled rapport with the 
magic of nature. Your proficiency ranks for primal spell 
attack rolls and spell DCs increase to legendary. 


PRIMAL HIEROPHANT ISTH 


You command the most potent forces of primal magic 
and can cast a spell of truly incredible power. You gain a 
single 10th-level spell slot and can prepare a spell in that 
slot using primal spellcasting. You can’t use this spell slot 
for abilities that let you cast spells without expending spell 
slots or that give you more spell slots. You don’t gain more 
10th-level spells as you level up, though you can take the 
Hierophant’s Power feat to gain a second slot. 


DRUID FEATS 

At every level that you gain a druid feat, you can select one 
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites 
before selecting the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


ANIMAL COMPANION FEAT 1 
ET 

Prerequisites animal order 

You gain the service of a young animal companion (page 214) 
that travels with you on your adventures and obeys any 
simple commands you give it to the best of its abilities. 


LESHY FAMILIAR FEAT 1 
mm 

Prerequisites leaf order 

You gain a leshy familiar, a Tiny plant (or fungus for a fungus 
leshy) that embodies one of the many spirits of nature. Other 
than taking the form of a plant instead of an animal, this familiar 
uses all the same rules as other familiars, detailed on page 217. 


hh. 


f 
| 


EQUIPMENT 


T 


‘SPELLS 


a 


HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


SAMPLE DRUID 


——F -—— 


WILD DRUID 


Taking on the forms of dangerous creatures, you fight 
with feral intensity. Though you trust your instincts, 
you might mistrust the ways of polite society. 


y — 
ABILITY SCORES 
Prioritize Wisdom and Strength so you can cast spells 
and enter melee combat. You'll also want Dexterity and 
Constitution to improve your defenses and survivability. 


SKILLS 


Acrobatics, Athletics, Intimidation, Nature 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Form Control (4th), Insect Shape (6th), Soaring Shape 
(8th), Plant Shape (10th), Monstrosity Shape (16th) 


PREPARED SPELLS 
1st heal, magic fang; Cantrips dancing lights, detect magic, 
know direction, produce flame, tanglefoot 


REACH SPELL 9 FEAT 1 
| CONCENTRATE | DRUID 

You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you 
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell's 
range by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if 
the spell normally has a range of touch, you extend its range 
to 30 feet. 


STORM BORN FEAT 1 
EE cites storm order 

You are at home out in the elements, reveling in the power of 
nature unleashed. You do not take circumstance penalties to 
ranged spell attacks or Perception checks caused by weather, 
and your targeted spells don't require a flat check to succeed 
against a target concealed by weather (such as fog). 


WIDEN SPELL «> FEAT 1 
[DRUID] MANIPULATE | METAMAGIC | 

You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to spread 
out and affect a wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast 
a Spell that has an area of a burst, cone, or line and does not 
have a duration, increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the 
radius of a burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet 
(a burst with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 feet to the 
length of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, 
and add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line. 


WILD SHAPE FEAT 1 
[DRUID 

Prerequisites wild order 

You are one with the wild, always changing and adapting to 
meet any challenge. You gain the wild shape order spell, which 
lets you transform into a variety of forms that you can expand 
with druid feats. 


2ND LEVEL 


CALL OF THE WILD FEAT 2 


You call upon the creatures of nature to come to your aid. You 
can spend 10 minutes in concert with nature to replace one 
of the spells you've prepared in one of your druid spell slots 
with a summon animal or summon plant or fungus spell of the 
same level. 


ENHANCED FAMILIAR FEAT 2 
DRUID 


Prerequisites a familiar 

You infuse your familiar with additional primal energy, 
increasing its abilities. You can select four familiar or master 
abilities each day, instead of two. 


ORDER EXPLORER FEAT 2 
DRUID 


You have learned the secrets of another druidic order, 


passing whatever rites of initiation that order requires and gaining access to its secrets. 
Choose an order other than your own. You gain a 1st-level feat that lists that order as a 
prerequisite, and you are now a member of that order for the purpose of meeting feat 
prerequisites. If you commit acts anathema to your new order, you lose all feats and 
abilities requiring that order but retain your other druid feats and abilities. You don't gain 
any of the other benefits of the order you chose. 

Special You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you must choose a 
different order other than your own. 


POISON RESISTANCE FEAT 2 


Your affinity for the natural world grants you protection against some of its dangers. You 
gain poison resistance equal to half your level, and you gain a *1 status bonus to saving 
throws against poisons. 


4TH LEVEL 


FORM CONTROL __ FEAT4 


peop Eh 14, Wild Shape 

With additional care and effort, you can take on an alternate form for a longer period 
of time. If your next action is to cast wild shape, wild shape’s spell level is 2 lower than 
normal (minimum 1st level), but you can remain transformed for up to 1 hour or the listed 
duration (whichever is longer). You can still Dismiss the form at any time, as permitted 
by the spell. 


MATURE ANIMAL COMPANION FEAT 4 
Prerequisites Animal Companion 

Your animal companion grows up, becoming a mature animal companion, which grants it 
additional capabilities. See the animal companion rules on page 214 for more information. 
Your animal companion is better trained than most. During an encounter, even if you don't 
use the Command an Animal action, your animal companion can still use 1 action on your 
turn that round to Stride or Strike. 


ORDER MAGIC FEAT 4 

DRUID 
Prerequisites Order Explorer 
You have delved deeper into the teaching of a new order, gaining access to a coveted order 
spell. Choose an order you have selected with Order Explorer. You gain the initial order spell 
from that order. 

Special You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you must choose a 

different order you have selected with Order Explorer. 


THOUSAND FACES FEAT 4 
| DRUID 

Prerequisites Wild Shape 

Your form is as mutable as the weather, changing to meet your whim. You add the forms 
listed in humanoid form to your wild shape list. 


WOODLAND STRIDE FEAT 4 
Prerequisites leaf order 

You can always find a path, almost as if foliage parted before you. You ignore any difficult 
terrain caused by plants and fungi, such as bushes, vines, and undergrowth. Even plants 
and fungi manipulated by magic don't impede your progress. 


DRUID FEATS 
If you need to look up a druid 
feat by name instead of by level, 
use this table. 


Feat 

Animal Companion 1 
Call of the Wild 2 
Dragon Shape 12 
Effortless Concentration 16 
Elemental Shape 10 
Enhanced Familiar 2 
Ferocious Shape 8 
Fey Caller 8 
Form Control 4 
Green Empathy 6 
Green Tongue 12 
Healing Transformation 10 
Hierophant's Power 20 
Impaling Briars 16 
Incredible Companion 8 
Insect Shape 6 
Invoke Disaster 18 
Leshy Familiar 1 
Leyline Conduit 20 
Mature Animal Companion 4 
Monstrosity Shape 16 
Order Explorer 2 
Order Magic 4 
Overwhelming Energy 10 
Perfect Form Control 18 
Plant Shape 10 
Poison Resistance 2 
Primal Focus 12 
Primal Summons 12 
Primal Wellspring 18 
Reach Spell 1 
Side by Side 10 
Soaring Shape 8 
Specialized Companion 14 
Steady Spellcasting 6 
Storm Born 1 
Storm Retribution 6 
Thousand Faces 4 
Timeless Nature 14 
True Shapeshifter 20 
Verdant Metamorphosis 14 
Widen Spell 1 
Wild Shape 1 
Wind Caller 8 
Woodland Stride 4 


t 
[ 


EQUIPMENT 
pd 


SPELLS 
y 


HE AGE OF 


LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


STORM DRUID 


You call upon the power of nature to let loose bolts 


of lightning, intense weather, and elemental spells. 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Wisdom. You typically stay at range, so take a 
high Dexterity. You can choose whether to focus more on 
your health with Constitution or be more knowledgeable 
and skilled with Intelligence. 


SKILLS 


Acrobatics, Medicine, Nature, Survival 


ORDER 


Storm 


FEATS 
Widen Spell (1st), Storm Retribution (6th), Wind Caller 
(8th), Primal Focus (12th), Invoke Disaster (18th) 


PREPARED SPELLS 
1st burning hands, gust of wind; Cantrips detect magic, 
electric arc, know direction, light, ray of frost 


STH LEVEL 


GREEN EMPATHY FEAT 6 
EM ies leaf order 

You can communicate with plants and fungi on a basic level and 
use Diplomacy to Make an Impression on them and to make 
very simple Requests of them. Non-creature plants and fungi 
typically can't fulfill most requests unless you're using magic 
such as speak with plants. Because of your affiliation with the 
leaf order, plants and fungi have a sense that you support them, 
so you gain a *2 circumstance bonus on your check to Make a 
Request of a plant or fungus using Green Empathy. 


INSECT SHAPE FEAT 6 


Prerequisites Wild Shape 

Your understanding of life expands, allowing you to mimic a 
wider range of creatures. Add the forms in insect form to your 
wild shape list. Whenever you use wild shape to polymorph 
into the non-flying insect form listed in pest form, the duration 
is 24 hours instead of 10 minutes. 


STEADY SPELLCASTING FEAT 6 
DRUID | 

Confident in your technique, you don't lose spells easily. If a 
reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC 
15 flat check. If you succeed, your action isn't disrupted. 


STORM RETRIBUTION 2 FEAT 6 

EM es storm order, tempest surge order spell 

Trigger An opponent adjacent to you critically hits you with a 
melee weapon or melee unarmed attack. 

Requirements You have at least 1 available Focus Point. 

You lash out, directing a burst of storming fury toward a 

creature that has harmed you. You cast tempest surge on the 

triggering opponent and push that creature, moving it 5 feet 

away from you if it fails its Reflex save, or 10 feet if it critically 

fails. This movement is forced movement. 


8TH LEVEL 


FEROCIOUS SHAPE FEAT8 


Prerequisites Wild Shape 

You have mastered the shape of ferocious dinosaurs. Add 
the forms listed in dinosaur form to your wild shape list. 
Whenever you use wild shape to take a form that grants you 
a specific Athletics modifier, you gain a *1 status bonus to your 
Athletics checks. 


FEY CALLER FEAT8 
DRUID 


You have learned some of the tricks the fey use to bend primal 
magic toward illusions and trickery. Add illusory disguise, 


illusory object, illusory scene, and veil to your spell list as 
primal spells. 


INCREDIBLE COMPANION 
Prerequisites Mature Animal Companion 
Your animal companion continues to grow and develop. It 
becomes a nimble or savage animal companion (your choice), 
gaining additional capabilities determined by the type of 
companion (page 214). 


SOARING SHAPE 
Prerequisites Wild Shape 
Wings free you from the shackles of the ground below. Add 
the bat and bird forms in aerial form to your wild shape list. 
If you have Insect Shape, you also add the wasp form to your 
wild shape list. If you have Ferocious Shape, you also add the 
pterosaur form to your wild shape list. Whenever you use 
wild shape to gain a form that grants you a specific Acrobatics 
modifier, you gain a *1 status bonus to Acrobatics checks. 


WIND CALLER FEATS 


Em 

Prerequisites storm order 

You bid the winds to lift and carry you through the air. You 
gain the stormwind flight order spell. Increase the number of 


Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


FEAT8 


FEAT8 


am 
=: : 


10TH LEVEL 


ELEMENTAL SHAPE 
Prerequisites Wild Shape 
You understand the fundamental elements of nature such that 
you can imbue them into your body and manifest as a living 
embodiment of those elements. Add the forms in elemental 
form to your wild shape list. Whenever you're polymorphed 
into another form using wild shape, you gain resistance 
5 to fire. 


HEALING TRANSFORMATION «> 
You can take advantage of shapechanging magic to close 
wounds and patch injuries. If your next action is to cast a 
non-cantrip polymorph spell that targets only one creature, 
your polymorph spell also restores 1d6 Hit Points per spell 
level to that creature. This is a healing effect. 


OVERWHELMING ENERGY «> 


J DRUID} MANIPULATE | METAMAGIC | 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 
With a complex gesture, you call upon the primal power 
of your spell to overcome enemies’ resistances. If the next 
action you use is to Cast a Spell, the spell ignores an amount 
of the target’s resistance to acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic 
damage equal to your level. This applies to all damage the 
spell deals, including persistent damage and damage caused 


A, 


SAMPLE DRUID 


LEAF DRUID 


You’re a nurturing caretaker in tune with the 
natural world and the magic of life. A little plant 


creature called a leshy accompanies you. 


ABILITY SCORES 


Prioritize Wisdom. Take Dexterity and Constitution for 
your defenses, and Charisma to be more diplomatic or 
Strength if you want to deal more damage in melee. 


SKILLS 


Diplomacy, Medicine, Nature, Survival 


ORDER 
Leaf 


FEATS 


Call of the Wild (2nd), Woodland Stride (4th), Green 
Empathy (6th), Plant Shape (10th), Green Tongue (12th) 


PREPARED SPELLS 


1st heal, summon plant or fungus; Cantrips detect magic, 


know direction, light, stabilize, tanglefoot 


e - ! 
A» DATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK : 


by an ongoing effect of the spell, such as the wall created by 
wall of fire. A creature's immunities are unaffected. 


PLANT SHAPE FEAT 10 
DRUID 


Prerequisites leaf order or Wild Shape 


You can take the form of a plant creature. Add the forms listed 
in plant form to your wild shape list; if you don't have wild 


i -. shape, you can instead cast plant form once per day, 
hp heightened to the same level as your highest-level druid 
? spell slot. Whenever you're polymorphed into another 
form using wild shape, you gain resistance 5 to poison. 
i 
>)  SIDEBYSIDE FEAT 10 


Prerequisites Animal Companion 
You and your animal companion fight in tandem, distracting 
your foes and keeping them off balance. Whenever you and 
your animal companion are adjacent to the same foe, you are 
both flanking that foe with each other, regardless of your 
actual positions. 


12TH LEVEL 


DRAGON SHAPE FEAT 12 
E tes Soaring Shape 

You can take on the form of some of the world’s most fearsome 
creatures. Add the forms listed in dragon form to your wild 
shape list. Whenever you're polymorphed into another form 
using wild shape, you gain resistance 5 to your choice of acid, 
cold, electricity, fire, or poison. 


GREEN TONGUE FEAT 12 
DRUID | 

Prerequisites Green Empathy 

You share a special kinship with all things green and living. 
You (and your leshy familiar, if you have one) are constantly 
under the effects of speak with plants. Most non-creature 
plants recognize you as a druid of the leaf order and are 
friendly to you. 


PRIMAL FOCUS FEAT 12 
EM ection to nature is particularly strong, and the 
spirits of nature flock around you, helping you replenish your 
focus. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last 
time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you 
Refocus instead of 1. 


PRIMAL SUMMONS FEAT 12 


Prerequisites Call of the Wild 

Whenever you summon an ally, you can empower it with 
the elemental power of air, earth, fire, or water. You gain the 
primal summons order spell. 


14TH LEVEL 


SPECIALIZED COMPANION FEAT 14 


Prerequisites Incredible Companion 
Your animal companion continues to grow in power and ability, 
and it is now cunning enough to become specialized. Your 
animal companion gains one specialization of your choice. (See 
the Animal Companion section on page 214.) 

Special You can select this feat up to three times. Each time, 
add a different specialization to your companion. 


TIMELESS NATURE 
ET] 

primal magic sustaining you, you cease aging. The 
overflowing primal energy gives you a *2 status bonus to saves 
against diseases and primal magic. 


VERDANT METAMORPHOSIS 
Prerequisites leaf order 

You transform into a plant version of yourself. You gain the 
plant trait and lose any trait that's inappropriate for your new 
form (typically humanoid for a PC, but also possibly animal or 
fungus). You can change from a form that looks mostly like 
your old self into a tree or any other non-creature plant as 
a single action, which has the concentrate trait. This has the 
same effect as tree shape, except you can turn into any kind of 
non-creature plant and your AC is 30. 

If you rest for 10 minutes while transformed into a non- 
creature plant during daylight hours under direct sunlight, 
you recover half your maximum Hit Points. If you take your 
daily rest in this way, the rest restores you to maximum Hit 
Points and removes all non-permanent drained, enfeebled, 
clumsy, and stupefied conditions, as well as all poisons and 
diseases of 19th level or lower. 


16TH LEVEL 


EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION © FEAT 16 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


| DRUID | 
Trigger Your turn begins. 


You maintain a spell with hardly a thought. You immediately 
gain the effects of the Sustain a Spell action, allowing you to 
extend the duration of one of your active druid spells. 


IMPALING BRIARS FEAT 16 


You can transform into a powerful magical creature. Add the 
purple worm and sea serpent forms listed in monstrosity form 
to your wild shape list. If you have Soaring Shape, also add the 
phoenix form to your wild shape list. 


18TH LEVEL 


INVOKE DISASTER FEAT 18 


Em 

Prerequisites Wind Caller 

You can invoke natures fury upon your foes. You gain the 
storm lord order spell. Increase the number of Focus Points in 
your focus pool by 1. 


PERFECT FORM CONTROL 
Prerequisites Form Control, Strength 18 
Thanks to magic and muscle memory, you can stay in your 
alternate forms indefinitely; you may have even forgotten 
your original form. When you use Form Control, instead of 
lasting 1 hour, wild shape is permanent until you Dismiss it. 


PRIMAL WELLSPRING FEAT 18 


Em 
Prerequisites Primal Focus 

Your reservoir of Focus Points is a deep wellspring. If you 
have spent at least 3 Focus Points since the last time you 
Refocused, you recover 3 Focus Points when you Refocus 


instead of 1. 


20TH LEVEL 


HIEROPHANT'S POWER FEAT 20 


| DRUID f 
You have entwined yourself with the natural world, and its full 
power flows through you. You gain an additional 1Oth-level 


spell slot. 


LEYLINE CONDUIT +> 


FEAT 18 


FEAT 20 


Frequency once per minute 


You can cast your spells effortlessly by tapping into the 
leylines of the world. If your next action is to Cast a Spell of 
5th level or lower that has no duration, you don't expend the 
prepared spell as you cast it. 


TRUE SHAPESHIFTER *> FEAT 20 


Prerequisites leaf order 


ETT 


Prerequisites Dragon Shape, Wild Shape 


You can fill an area with devastating briars that impale and 
impede your foes. You gain the impaling briars order spell. 
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


FEAT 16 


You transcend the limitations of form. While under the effects 
of wild shape, you can change into any other form on your 
wild shape list; if the durations of the forms would vary, use 
the shorter of the two durations. 

Once per day, you can transform into a kaiju, with the 
effects of nature incarnate; if you have Plant Shape, you can 
instead transform into a green man. 


KEY ABILITY 
STRENGTH OR DEXTERITY 


HIT POINTS 


10 plus your Constitution modifier 
You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 
level thereafter. 


At 1st level, your class gives you 
an ability boost to your choice of 
Strength or Dexterity. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You strike with unmatched accuracy and use specialized combat techniques. A melee 
fighter stands between allies and enemies, attacking foes who try to get past. A 
ranged fighter delivers precise shots from a distance. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


You can be an intimidating presence. This can be useful when negotiating with 
enemies, but is sometimes a liability in more genteel interactions. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


You keep up your defenses in preparation for combat, and keep an eye out for 
hidden threats. You also overcome physical challenges in your way, breaking down 
doors, lifting obstacles, climbing adeptly, and leaping across pits. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You might perform manual labor or craft and repair armaments. If you know 
techniques you no longer favor, you might train yourself in new ones. If you’ve 
established your reputation, you might build an organization or a stronghold of 
your own. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Know the purpose and quality of every weapon and piece of armor you own. 

* Recognize that the danger of an adventurer's life must be balanced out with great 
revelry or ambitious works. 

* Have little patience for puzzles or problems that require detailed logic or study. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Find you intimidating until they get to know you—and maybe even after they get 
to know you. 

* Expect you're all brawn and no brains. 

* Respect your expertise in the art of warfare and value your opinion on the quality 
of armaments. 


Fighting for honor, greed, loyalty, or simply the thrill of battle, you are an 
undisputed master of weaponry and combat techniques. You combine your 
actions through clever combinations of opening moves, finishing strikes, and 
counterattacks whenever your foes are unwise enough to drop their guard. Whether you 
are a knight, mercenary, sharpshooter, or blade master, you have honed your martial skills 
into an art form and perform devastating critical attacks on your enemies. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


PERCEPTION 


Expert in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 


Expert in Fortitude 
Expert in Reflex 
Trained in Will 


SKILLS 

Trained in your choice of 
Acrobatics or Athletics 

Trained in a number of 
additional skills equal to 3 plus 
your Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 

Expert in simple weapons 
Expert in martial weapons 
Trained in advanced weapons 
Expert in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Trained in all armor 
Trained in unarmored defense 


CLASS DE 
Trained in fighter class DC 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


3 


-R) CORE RULEBOOK 3j 


TABLE 3-12: FIGHTER ADVANCEMENT 


Your 


Class Features 

1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, 
Attack of Opportunity, fighter feat, Shield Block 

2 Fighter feat, skill feat 

3 Bravery, general feat, skill increase 

4 Fighter feat, skill feat 

5 Ability boosts, ancestry feat, fighter weapon 

mastery, skill increase 


Level 


6 Fighter feat, skill feat 

7 Battlefield surveyor, general feat, skill increase, 
weapon specialization 

8 Fighter feat, skill feat 

9 Ancestry feat, combat flexibility, juggernaut, 
skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, fighter feat, skill feat 

11 Armor expertise, fighter expertise, general feat, 
skill increase 

12 Fighter feat, skill feat 

13 Ancestry feat, skill increase, weapon legend 

14 Fighter feat, skill feat 

15 Ability boosts, evasion, general feat, greater weapon 


specialization, improved flexibility, skill increase 
16 Fighter feat, skill feat 


17 Ancestry feat, armor mastery, skill increase 
18 Fighter feat, skill feat 
19 General feat, skill increase, versatile legend 


20 Ability boosts, fighter feat, skill feat 


CLASS FEATURES 

You gain these abilities as a fighter. Abilities gained at 
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to 
the features’ names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st 
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies that 
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are 
noted at the start of this class. 


ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY 


Ever watchful for weaknesses, you can quickly attack 
foes that leave an opening in their defenses. You gain the 
Attack of Opportunity reaction. 


ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY 2 

Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action 
or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square 
during a move action it's using. 

You lash out at a foe that leaves an opening. Make a melee Strike 


against the triggering creature. If your attack is a critical hit and 
the trigger was a manipulate action, you disrupt that action. 
This Strike doesn't count toward your multiple attack penalty, 
and your multiple attack penalty doesn't apply to this Strike. 


FIGHTER FEATS 


At 1st level and every even-numbered level thereafter, you 
gain a fighter class feat. Fighter class feats are described 
beginning on page 144. 


SHIELD BLOCK 


You gain the Shield Block general feat (found on page 
266), a reaction that lets you reduce damage with 
your shield. 


SKILL FEATS 2ND 
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a 
skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and 
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the 
corresponding skill to select a skill feat. 


BRAVERY 3RD 


Having faced countless foes and the chaos of battle, you 
have learned how to stand strong in the face of fear and 
keep on fighting. Your proficiency rank for Will saves 
increases to expert. When you roll a success at a Will save 
against a fear effect, you get a critical success instead. 
In addition, anytime you gain the frightened condition, 
reduce its value by 1. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your 
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained 
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in 
which you’re already trained to expert. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase 
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you're 
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to 
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in 
which you’re already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At Sth level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 
if it starts out below 18. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at Sth level and every 4 levels thereafter. 


The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2. 


FIGHTER WEAPON MASTERY STH 


Hours spent training with your preferred weapons, learning 
and developing new combat techniques, have made you 
particularly effective with your weapons of choice. Choose 
one weapon group. Your proficiency rank increases to 
master with the simple weapons, martial weapons, and 
unarmed attacks in that group, and to expert with the 
advanced weapons in that group. You gain access to the 
critical specialization effects (page 283) of all weapons and 
unarmed attacks for which you have master proficiency. 


BATTLEFIELD SURVEYOR 7TH 


Whether taking stock of an enemy army or simply standing 
guard, you excel at observing your foes. Your proficiency 
rank for Perception increases to master. In addition, you 
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks for 
initiative, making you faster to react during combat. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH 


You've learned how to inflict greater injuries with the 
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an 
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you're a master, and to 
4 if you're legendary. 


COMBAT FLEXIBILITY STH 


Through your experience in battle, you can prepare your 
tactics to suit different situations. When you make your 
daily preparations, you gain one fighter feat of 8th level 
or lower that you don’t already have. You can use that 
feat until your next daily preparations. You must meet all 
of the feat’s other prerequisites. 


JUGGERNAUT STH 


Your body is accustomed to physical hardship and 
resistant to ailments. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude 
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a 
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead. 


ARMOR EXPERTISE ITH 


You have spent so much time wearing armor that you know 
how to make the most of its protection. Your proficiency 
rank for light, medium, and heavy armor, as well as for 
unarmored defense, increase to expert. You gain the armor 
specialization effects of medium and heavy armor. 


FIGHTER EXPERTISE ATH 


Your practiced techniques are hard to resist. Your proficiency 
rank for your fighter class DC increases to expert. 


WEAPON LEGEND 13TH 


You’ve learned fighting techniques that apply to all 
armaments, and you’ve developed unparalleled skill with 


LASS 


KEY TERMS 
You'll see the following key terms in many fighter 
class features. 

Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques 
that require too much exertion for you to perform 
frequently. You can use only 1 action with the flourish 
trait per turn. 

Open: These maneuvers work only as the first salvo in 
the attacks you make on your turn. You can use an action 
with the open trait only if you haven't used an action with 
the attack or open trait yet this turn. 

Press: Actions with this trait allow you to follow up 
earlier attacks. An action with the press trait can be 
used only if you are currently affected by a multiple 
attack penalty. You can't use a press action when it's not 
your turn, even if you use the Ready activity. 

Some actions with the press trait also grant an effect 
on a failure. The effects that are added on a failure don't 
apply on a critical failure. If your press action succeeds, 
you can choose to apply the failure effect instead. (For 
example, you may wish to do this when an attack deals 
no damage due to resistance.) 

Stance: A stance is a general combat strategy that 
you enter by using an action with the stance trait, and 
you remain in for some time. A stance lasts until you 
get knocked out, until its requirements (if any) are 
violated, until the encounter ends, or until you enter 
a new stance, whichever comes first. After you take 
an action with the stance trait, you can't take another 
one for 1 round. You can enter or be in a stance only in 
encounter mode. 


your favorite weapons. Your proficiency ranks for simple 
weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed attacks increase 
to master. Your proficiency rank for advanced weapons 
increases to expert. 

You can select one weapon group and increase your 
proficiency ranks to legendary for all simple weapons, 
martial weapons, and unarmed attacks in that weapon 
group, and to master for all advanced weapons in that 
weapon group. 


EVASION ISTH 


You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions, a 
dragon’s breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for 
Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success 
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead. 


GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION ISTH 


Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an 
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary. 


IMPROVED FLEXIBILITY ISTH 


Your extensive experience gives you even greater ability 


|THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


FIGHTER FEATS 

If you need to look up a fighter 
feat by name instead of by level, 
use this table. 


Feat 


Aggressive Block 
Agile Grace 
Assisting Shot 
Blind-Fight 
Boundless Reprisals 
Brutal Finish 
Brutish Shove 
Certain Strike 
Combat Grab 
Combat Reflexes 
Debilitating Shot 
Desperate Finisher 
Determination 
Disarming Stance 
Disarming Twist 
Disruptive Stance 
Double Shot 
Double Slice 
Dual-Handed Assault 
Dueling Dance 
Dueling Parry 
Dueling Riposte 
Exacting Strike 
Fearsome Brute 
Felling Strike 
Flinging Shove 
Furious Focus 
Graceful Poise 
Guardian's Deflection 
Guiding Finish 
Guiding Riposte 
Impossible Volley 


Level 


Advanced Weapon Training 6 
Advantageous Assault 


6 
2 
10 


ET 


MNOOLONNDAIA 


c 


16 


Improved Dueling Riposte 12 


Improved Knockdown 


Improved Reflexive Shield 16 


Improved Twin Riposte 


Incredible Aim 
Incredible Ricochet 
Intimidating Strike 
Knockdown 

Lunge 

Lunging Stance 
Mirror Shield 
Mobile Shot Stance 
Multishot Stance 
Paragon's Guard 
Point-Blank Shot 
Positioning Assault 
Power Attack 
Powerful Shove 
Quick Reversal 
Quick Shield Block 
Reactive Shield 
Reflexive Shield 
Revealing Stab 
Savage Critical 
Shatter Defenses 
Shield Warden 
Shielded Stride 


ROOO0O00-—0151Rs-0.- 


to adapt to each day's challenges. When you use combat flexibility, you can gain 
two fighter feats instead of one. While the first feat must still be 8th level or lower, 
the second feat can be up to 14th level, and you can use the first feat to meet the 
prerequisites of the second feat. You must meet all of the feats’ prerequisites. 


ARMOR MASTERY 17TH 


Your skill with armor improves, increasing your ability to prevent blows. Your 
proficiency ranks for light, medium, and heavy armor, as well as for unarmored 
defense, increase to master. 


VERSATILE LEGEND 19TH 


You are nigh-unmatched with any weapon. Your proficiency ranks for simple 
weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed attacks increase to legendary, and your 
proficiency rank for advanced weapons increases to master. Your proficiency rank 
for your fighter class DC increases to master. 


FIGHTER FEATS 


At each level that you gain a fighter feat, you can select one of the following feats. 
You must satisfy any prerequisites before taking the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


DOUBLE SLICE 9$ FEAT 1 
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a different hand. 

You lash out at your foe with both weapons. Make two Strikes, one with each of your two 
melee weapons, each using your current multiple attack penalty. Both Strikes must have 
the same target. If the second Strike is made with a weapon that doesn't have the agile trait, 
it takes a -2 penalty. 

If both attacks hit, combine their damage, and then add any other applicable effects 
from both weapons. You add any precision damage only once, to the attack of your choice. 
Combine the damage from both Strikes and apply resistances and weaknesses only once. 
This counts as two attacks when calculating your multiple attack penalty. 


EXACTING STRIKE *> 
| FIGHTER | PRESS | 

You make a controlled attack, fully accounting for your momentum. Make a Strike. The 
Strike gains the following failure effect. 

Failure This attack does not count toward your multiple attack penalty. 


POINT-BLANK SHOT +> 
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon. 

You take aim to pick off nearby enemies quickly. When using a ranged volley weapon while 
you are in this stance, you don't take the penalty to your attack rolls from the volley trait. 
When using a ranged weapon that doesn't have the volley trait, you gain a +2 circumstance 
bonus to damage rolls on attacks against targets within the weapon's first range increment. 


POWER ATTACK 9$ FEAT 1 


| FIGHTER | FLOURISH | 
You unleash a particularly powerful attack that clobbers your foe but leaves you a bit 
unsteady. Make a melee Strike. This counts as two attacks when calculating your multiple 
attack penalty. If this Strike hits, you deal an extra die of weapon damage. If you're at least 
10th level, increase this to two extra dice, and if you're at least 18th level, increase it to 


three extra dice. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


Feat (cont.) 
REACTIVE SHIELD > FEAT 1 Snagging Strike 1 INTRODUCTION 
Spring Attack 12 j 
Trigger An enemy hits you with a melee Strike. Stance Savant 14 
Requirements You are wielding a shield. Sudden Charge 1 imt d 
You can snap your shield into place just as you would take a blow, avoiding the hit at the S Leap 2 
last second. You immediately use the Raise a Shield action and gain your shield's bonus to Triple Shot 6 à ] 
AC. The circumstance bonus from the shield applies to your AC when you're determining Twinned Defense 16 
the outcome of the triggering attack. Twin Parry 4 

Twin Riposte 10 SKILLS 
SNAGGING STRIKE 9 PEAT) RS s 

Weapon Supremacy 20 
Whirlwind Strike 14 FEATS 
Requirements You have one hand free, and your target is within reach of that hand. 
You combine an attack with quick grappling moves to throw an enemy off balance as long EQUIPMENT 
as it stays in your reach. Make a Strike while keeping one hand free. If this 
Strike hits, the target is flat-footed until the start of your next turn or until 
ud UE. ; i SPELLS 
it’s no longer within the reach of your hand, whichever comes first. 
SUDDEN CHARGE -99 FEAT 1 WESEL 
carer [rious] oP ee 
With a quick sprint, you dash up to your foe and swing. Stride twice. If you 
end your movement within melee reach of at least one enemy, you can make a « PLAYING THE 
melee Strike against that enemy. You can use Sudden Charge while Burrowing, BAME 
Climbing, Flying, or Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding 
movement type. GAME 


2ND LEVEL MASTERING 


RAFTING 


AGGRESSIVE BLOCK €» ASURE 


| FIGHTER | 
Trigger You use the Shield Block reaction, and the opponent 
that triggered Shield Block is adjacent to you and is your 
size or smaller. 
You push back as you block, knocking your foe away or off 
balance. You use your shield to push the triggering creature, g 
either automatically Shoving it 5 feet or causing it to become 
flat-footed until the start of your next turn. The triggering 
creature chooses whether to be moved or become flat- 
footed. If it chooses to be moved, you choose the direction. 
If the Shove would cause it to hit a solid object, enter a 
square of difficult terrain, or enter another creature's space, 
it must become flat-footed instead of being moved. 


ASSISTING SHOT *> FEAT 2 
[FIGHTER | PRESS 

Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon. 
With a quick shot, you interfere with a foe in combat. 
Make a Strike with a ranged weapon. If the Strike 
hits, the next creature other than you to attack | 5] 
the same target before the start of your next turn 
gains a +1 circumstance bonus to their roll, or a +2 
circumstance bonus if your Strike was a critical hit. 


BRUTISH SHOVE +> FEAT 2 
| FIGHTER | PRESS | 


Requirements You are wielding a two-handed melee weapon. 
Throwing your weight behind your attack, you hit your 


JATHFI Conr RULEBOOK 4 
Me ag A ciii i — "AE ell 


opponent hard enough to make it stumble back. Make a 
Strike with a two-handed melee weapon. If you hit a target 
that is your size or smaller, that creature is flat-footed until 
the end of your current turn, and you can automatically 
Shove it, with the same benefits as the Shove action 
(including the critical success effect, if your Strike was a 
critical hit). If you move to follow the target, your movement 
doesnt trigger reactions. 
This Strike has the following failure effect. 
Failure The target becomes flat-footed until the end of your 
current turn. 


COMBAT GRAB *> 


| FIGHTER | PRESS | 
Requirements You have one hand free, and your target is 
within reach of that hand. 

You swipe at your opponent and grab at them. Make a melee 
Strike while keeping one hand free. If the Strike hits, you grab 
the target using your free hand. The creature remains grabbed 
until the end of your next turn or until it Escapes, whichever 
comes first. 


DUELING PARRY +> 


| FIGHTER f 

EM You are wielding only a single one-handed 
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free. 

You can parry attacks against you with your one-handed 

weapon. You gain a *2 circumstance bonus to AC until the 

start of your next turn as long as you continue to meet 

the requirements. 


INTIMIDATING STRIKE 95 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 2 


DUAL-HANDED ASSAULT +> 


| FIGHTER | FLOURISH | 
Requirements You are wielding a one-handed melee weapon 
and have a free hand. 

You snap your free hand over to grip your weapon just long 
enough to add momentum and deliver a more powerful 
blow to your opponent. Make a Strike with the required 
weapon. You quickly switch your grip during the Strike in 
order to make the attack with two hands. If the weapon 
doesnt normally have the two-hand trait, increase its 
weapon damage die by one step for this attack. (Rules on 
increasing die size appear on page 279.) If the weapon has 
the two-hand trait, you gain the benefit of that trait and 
a circumstance bonus to damage equal to the weapon's 
number of damage dice. When the Strike is complete, you 
resume gripping the weapon with only one hand. This action 
doesn't end any stance or fighter feat effect that requires 
you to have one hand free. 


KNOCKDOWN <> 

| FIGHTER | FLOURISH | 

Prerequisites trained in Athletics 
You make an attack to knock a foe off balance, then follow 
up immediately with a sweep to topple them. Make a 
melee Strike. If it hits and deals damage, you can attempt 
an Athletics check to Trip the creature you hit. If you're 
wielding a two-handed melee weapon, you can ignore Trip's 
requirement that you have a hand free. Both attacks count 
toward your multiple attack penalty, but the penalty doesn't 
increase until after you've made both of them. 


POWERFUL SHOVE 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


Your Xm not only wounds creatures but also shatters their 
confidence. Make a melee Strike. If you hit and deal damage, 
the target is frightened 1, or frightened 2 on a critical hit. 


LUNGE *> FEAT2 


E 

Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon. 

Extending your body to its limits, you attack an enemy that 
would normally be beyond your reach. Make a Strike with a 
melee weapon, increasing your reach by 5 feet for that Strike. 
If the weapon has the disarm, shove, or trip trait, you can use 
the corresponding action instead of a Strike. 


4TH LEVEL 


DOUBLE SHOT 9$ FEAT 4 


| FIGHTER | FLOURISH 

Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with reload O. 
You shoot twice in blindingly fast succession. Make two 
Strikes, each against a separate target and with a -2 penalty. 
Both attacks count toward your multiple attack penalty, but 
the penalty doesn't increase until after you've made both 
of them. 


Prerequisites Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove 

You can push larger foes around with your attack. You can use 
Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove against a creature up to 
two sizes larger than you. 

When a creature you Shove has to stop moving because it 
would hit an object, it takes damage equal to your Strength 
modifier (minimum 1). This happens regardless of how you 
Shoved the creature. 


QUICK REVERSAL «> 


| FIGHTER | FLOURISH | PRESS | 

Requirements You are flanked by at least two enemies. 

You turn your foes’ flanking against them with a quick 
reverse. Make a melee Strike against one of the flanking 
enemies and make a second Strike with the same weapon 
or unarmed attack against a different enemy that is flanking 
you. This second Strike has the same multiple attack penalty 
of the initial attack and doesn't count toward your multiple 
attack penalty. 


SHIELDED STRIDE 


When your shield is up, your enemies' blows can't touch you. 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


When you have your shield raised, you can Stride to 
move half your Speed without triggering reactions that 
are triggered by your movement (such as Attacks of 
Opportunity). You can use Shielded Stride while Flying or 
Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding 
movement type. 
SWIPE 99 FEAT 4 
You make a wide, arcing swing. Make a melee Strike and 
compare the attack roll result to the AC of up to two foes, 
each of whom must be within your melee reach and adjacent 
to each other. Roll damage only once and apply it to each 
creature you hit. A Swipe counts as two attacks for your 
multiple attack penalty. 

If you’re using a weapon with the sweep trait, its modifier 
applies to all your Swipe attacks. 


TWIN PARRY «> 
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, one in 
each hand. 

You use your two weapons to parry attacks. You gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next turn, 
or a +2 circumstance bonus if either weapon has the parry 
trait. You lose this circumstance bonus if you no longer meet 
this feat's requirement. 


FEAT 4 


6TH LEVEL 


ADVANCED WEAPON TRAINING 
| FIGHTER | 

You've studied the art of wielding an advanced weapon. 
Choose a weapon group. You gain proficiency with all advanced 
weapons in that group as if they were martial weapons of 
their weapon group. 


ADVANTAGEOUS ASSAULT +> 


| FIGHTER | PRESS | 
When an enemy's movement is compromised, you deliver a 
more deadly blow. Make a Strike against a creature that is 
grabbed, prone, or restrained. You gain a circumstance bonus 
to damage on this Strike equal to the number of weapon 
damage dice, or that number + 2 if you're wielding the weapon 
in two hands. The Strike gains the following failure effect. 
Failure You deal damage to the target equal to the number of 
weapon damage dice, or that number + 2 if you're wielding 
the weapon in two hands. This damage has the same 
damage type as the weapon. 


DISARMING STANCE *> 

Prerequisites trained in Athletics 

Requirements You are wielding only a single one-handed 
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free. 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 6 


e 
t 
t 


PATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


SAMPLE FIGHTER 


i ~_— 


BULLY 


Using a two-handed weapon, you push your foes 
about the battlefield and deal grievous wounds. You 
excel at taking down the biggest enemy standing in 
your way. 

ie 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritizing Strength, Constitution, and Wisdom helps 
with survivability and increases your damage, and 
Dexterity allows extra maneuverability. 


SKILLS 


Athletics, Crafting, Intimidation, Medicine 


STARTING FEAT 
Power Attack 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Knockdown (4th), Furious Focus (6th), Positioning Assault 
(8th), Brutal Finish (12th), Savage Critical (18th) 


You adopt a fencing stance that improves your control over 
your weapon. While you are in this stance, you gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to Disarm and a 
+2 circumstance bonus to your Reflex DC when defending 
against checks to Disarm you. In addition, you can attempt to 
Disarm creatures up to two sizes larger than you. 


FURIOUS FOCUS 
Prerequisites Power Attack 
You've learned to maintain your balance even when swinging 
furiously. When you make a Power Attack with a melee 
weapon you're wielding in two hands, it counts as one attack 
toward your multiple attack penalty instead of two. 


GUARDIAN'S DEFLECTION > 

Trigger An ally within your melee reach is hit by an attack, 

you can see the attacker, and the ally gaining a +2 
circumstance bonus to AC would turn the critical hit 
into a hit or the hit into a miss. 

Requirements You are wielding a single one-handed 
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free. 
You use your weapon to deflect the attack against your ally, 
granting a +2 circumstance bonus to their Armor Class against 
the triggering attack. This turns the triggering critical hit into 
a hit, or the triggering hit into a miss. 


REFLEXIVE SHIELD 
You can use your shield to fend off the worst of area effects 
and other damage. When you Raise your Shield, you gain 
your shield's circumstance bonus to Reflex saves. If you have 
the Shield Block reaction, damage you take as a result of a 
Reflex save can trigger that reaction, even if the damage isn't 
physical damage. 


REVEALING STAB 99 
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon that deals 
piercing damage. 

You drive your piercing weapon into an imperceptible foe, 
revealing its location to your allies. Make a Strike with the 
required melee weapon. You don't have to attempt a flat check 
to hit a concealed creature, and you have to succeed at only a 
DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature. If you hit and deal 
damage, you can drive the required weapon into a corporeal 
target, revealing its current position. You Release the weapon, 
and it becomes lodged in the target. If the target is concealed, 
other creatures don't need to succeed at a flat check to hit 
it. If the target is hidden, other creatures have to succeed at 
only a DC 5 flat check to target it. The creatures need to be 
able to see your weapon to gain any of these benefits, and 
the target cant become undetected to anyone who sees your 
weapon. If the target is invisible, the weapon remains visible 
while lodged in it. 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 6 


This benefit lasts until the weapon is removed from the 
creature. An adjacent creature or the target can remove the 
weapon with 2 Interact actions. 


SHATTER DEFENSES 9 
| FIGHTER | PRESS | 
Requirements A frightened creature is in your melee reach. 
Your offense exploits your enemy’s fear. Make a melee Strike 
against a frightened creature. If you hit and deal damage, the 
target becomes flat-footed until its frightened condition ends. 
If the target was already flat-footed to you when you damaged 
it with this Strike, it can't reduce its frightened value below 1 
until the start of your next turn. 


SHIELD WARDEN 
Prerequisites Shield Block 
You use your shield to protect your allies. When you have a 
shield raised, you can use your Shield Block reaction when 
an attack is made against an ally adjacent to you. If you do, 
the shield prevents that ally from taking damage instead of 
preventing you from taking damage, following the normal 
rules for Shield Block. 


TRIPLE SHOT 
Prerequisites Double Shot 
You can quickly fire multiple shots with greater control. When 
you use Double Shot, you can make the attacks against the 
same target. You can add an additional action to Double Shot 
to make three ranged Strikes instead of two. If you do, the 
penalty is -4. All attacks count toward your multiple attack 
penalty, but the penalty doesn't increase until after you've 
made all of them. 


8TH LEVEL 


BLIND-FIGHT FEAT8 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 6 


FEAT6 


You riposte against your flailing enemy. Make a melee Strike 
against or attempt to Disarm the triggering creature. 


FELLING STRIKE 93 
| FIGHTER | 

Your attack can ground an airborne foe. Make a Strike. If it 
hits and deals damage to a flying target, the target falls up to 
120 feet. The fall is gradual enough that if it causes the target 
to hit the ground, the target takes no damage from the fall. If 
the attack is a critical hit, the target can't Fly, Leap, levitate, 
or otherwise leave the ground until the end of your next turn. 


INCREDIBLE AIM 9$ FEAT 8 
| CONCENTRATE | FIGHTER | 

By spending a moment to focus, you can ensure your attack 
strikes true. Make a ranged weapon Strike. On this Strike, you 
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the attack roll and ignore the 
target's concealed condition. 


MOBILE SHOT STANCE +> 
| FIGHTER | STANCE | 
Your shots become nimble and deadly. While you're in this 
stance, your ranged Strikes don't trigger Attacks of Opportunity 
or other reactions that are triggered by a ranged attack. 

If you have Attack of Opportunity, you can use it with a 
loaded ranged weapon you're wielding. The triggering creature 
must be within 5 feet of you for you to do so. 


POSITIONING ASSAULT 95 
| FIGHTER | FLOURISH | 
Requirements You are wielding a two-handed melee weapon 
and your target is within your reach. 

With punishing blows, you force your opponent into position. 
Make a Strike with the required weapon. If you hit, you move 
the target 5 feet into a space in your reach. This follows the 
forced movement rules found on page 475. 


QUICK SHIELD BLOCK 


FEAT 8 


FEAT 8 


FEAT 8 


FEAT 8 


| FIGHTER | 
Prerequisites master in Perception 


| FIGHTER | 
Prerequisites Shield Block 


Your battle instincts make you more aware of concealed 
and invisible opponents. You don't need to succeed at a flat 
check to target concealed creatures. You're not flat-footed 
to creatures that are hidden from you (unless you're flat- 
footed to them for reasons other than the hidden condition), 
and you need only a successful DC 5 flat check to target a 
hidden creature. 

While you're adjacent to an undetected creature of your 
level or lower, it is instead only hidden from you. 


DUELING RIPOSTE > 

Prerequisites Dueling Parry 

Trigger A creature within your reach critically fails a Strike 
against you. 

Requirements You are benefiting from Dueling Parry. 


FEAT 8 


You can bring your shield into place with hardly a thought. At 
the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional reaction 
that you can use only to Shield Block. 


SUDDEN LEAP +> 
| FIGHTER | 
You make an impressive leap and swing while you soar. Make 
a Leap, High Jump, or Long Jump and attempt one melee Strike 
at any point during your jump. Immediately after the Strike, 
you fall to the ground if you're in the air, even if you haven't 
reached the maximum distance of your jump. If the distance 
you fall is no more than the height of your jump, you take no 
damage and land upright. 

When attempting a High Jump or Long Jump during a 
Sudden Leap, determine the DC using the Long Jump DCs, and 
increase your maximum distance to double your Speed. 


FEAT 8 


CLASSES 


EQUIPMENT 


ug 


‘SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


.. PLAYING THE 
GAME 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


| DATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


SAMPLE FIGHTER 


— — 


DUELIST 


With one hand free and a blade in the others, 
you are adept at foiling your opponents by way 
of misdirection, disarming strikes, and by always 
being ready for their clumsy attacks. 


= -Fh a 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Strength. Dexterity and Wisdom help with 
survivability and versatility, and Constitution grants 
some extra toughness. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, Medicine 


STARTING FEAT 
Snagging Strike 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Dueling Parry (2nd), Guardian's Deflection (6th), Dueling 
Riposte (8th), Dueling Dance (12th), Stance Savant (14th) 


Special If you have Felling Strike, you can spend 3 actions 
to make a Sudden Leap and use Felling Strike instead of a 
normal Strike. 


10TH LEVEL 


AGILE GRACE FEAT 10 
Your graceful moves with agile weapons are beyond compare. 
Your multiple attack penalty with agile weapons and agile 
unarmed attacks becomes -3 for your second attack and -6 
for subsequent attacks (rather than -4 and -8). 


CERTAIN STRIKE *> 

[FIGHTER | PRESS 

Even when you don't hit squarely, you can still score a glancing 

blow. Make a melee Strike. It gains the following failure effect. 

Failure Your attack deals any damage it would have dealt on 
a hit, excluding all damage dice. (This removes damage dice 
from weapon runes, spells, and special abilities, in addition 
to weapon damage dice.) 


COMBAT REFLEXES 
You are particularly swift at punishing foes who leave you 
openings. At the start of each of your turns when you regain 
your actions, you gain an additional reaction that can be used 
only to make an Attack of Opportunity. 


DEBILITATING SHOT 99 
Aiming for a weak point, you impede your foe with a precise 
shot. Make a ranged weapon Strike. If it hits and deals damage, 
the target is slowed 1 until the end of its next turn. 


DISARMING TWIST «> 
[FIGHTER | PRESS | 
Prerequisites trained in Athletics 
Requirements You are wielding only a single one-handed 
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free. 
After your initial attack redirects your foe’s defenses, your 
follow-up wrests their weapon from their grasp. Make a 
melee Strike with the required weapon. In addition to its 
other effects, this Strike gains the success and critical success 
effects of the Disarm action. The Strike also has the following 
failure effect. 
Failure The target is flat-footed until the end of your current 
turn. 


DISRUPTIVE STANCE +> 
The slightest distraction can provoke your wrath, and you're 
prepared to foil enemies’ actions. As long as you are in this 
stance, you can use Attack of Opportunity when a creature 
within your reach uses a concentrate action, in addition to 
manipulate and move actions. Furthermore, you disrupt a 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


triggering concentrate or manipulate action if your Strike hits 
(not only if it's a critical hit). 


FEARSOME BRUTE FEAT 10 


the required weapon. Increase this to two dice if you're at 
least 18th level. 


DUELING DANCE «> FEAT 12 


Fear makes your foes weak and more vulnerable to your 
attacks. You gain a circumstance bonus to damage rolls for 
Strikes against frightened creatures. The bonus is equal to 
double the target's frightened value. 

If you have master proficiency in Intimidation, increase the 
bonus to triple the target's frightened value. 


Prerequisites Dueling Parry 

Requirements You are wielding only a single one-handed 
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free. 

Using your free hand as pivot and balance, you both attack 

and defend with your weapon. While you are in this stance, 

you constantly have the benefits of Dueling Parry. 


IMPROVED KNOCKDOWN FEAT10 FLINGING SHOVE FEAT 12 
| FIGHTER | 


Prerequisites Knockdown 


Prerequisites Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove 


You can dash your foe to the ground with a single blow. When 
you use Knockdown, instead of making a Strike followed by 
a Trip, you can attempt a single Strike. If you do and your 
Strike hits, instead of rolling a check for your Trip attempt, 
you automatically apply the critical success effect of a Trip. If 
you used a two-handed melee weapon for the Strike, you can 
use the weapon's damage die size instead of the regular die 
size for the damage from a critical Trip. 


MIRROR SHIELD 2 
| R | 

Trigger An opponent casting a spell that targets you critically 

fails a spell attack roll against your AC. 

Requirements You have a shield raised. 

You reflect the spell back against the triggering opponent. 
Make a ranged attack against the triggering creature using 
your highest proficiency with a ranged weapon. If you can cast 
spells, you can make a spell attack roll instead. If you succeed, 
your opponent takes the effects of a successful spell attack 
roll for their own spell (or the effects of a critical success if 
your attack roll was a critical success). 


TWIN RIPOSTE 2 


| FIGHTER 

Trigger A creature within your reach critically fails to Strike you. 
Requirements You are benefiting from Twin Parry. 

A clever parry with one weapon leaves your opponent open to 
an attack with the other weapon. Make a melee Strike or use a 
Disarm action against the triggering opponent. 


12TH LEVEL 


BRUTAL FINISH +> FEAT 12 
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon in two hands. 
Your final blow can make an impact even if it rebounds off a 
foe's defenses. Make a Strike with the required weapon. After 
the Strike, your turn ends. The Strike deals one extra weapon 
damage die, or two extra weapon damage dice if you're at least 
18th level. The Strike also gains the following failure effect. 

Failure You deal damage equal to one weapon damage die of 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


Increase the distance you Shove your opponent with Aggressive 
Block or Brutish Shove to 10 feet on a success or 20 feet on a 
critical success. When you use Aggressive Block, you can choose 
whether the target is flat-footed or Shoved. When you make a 
Brutish Shove, you also Shove the target 5 feet on a failure. 


IMPROVED DUELING RIPOSTE FEAT 12 
Prerequisites Dueling Riposte 

Your weapon whirls and darts, striking foes whenever the 
opportunity presents itself. At the start of each of your turns, 
you gain an additional reaction that you can use only to make 
a Dueling Riposte. You can use this extra reaction even if you 
are not benefiting from Dueling Parry. 


INCREDIBLE RICOCHET + 


| CONCENTRATE | FIGHTER | PRESS | 

Prerequisites Incredible Aim 

After your first shot singles out your opponent's position, you 
direct another that ricochets around obstacles and strikes 
unerringly. Make a ranged weapon Strike against a creature 
you previously attacked this turn. You ignore the target's 
concealed condition and all cover. 


LUNGING STANCE «> 

Prerequisites attack of opportunity, Lunge 
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon. 
Your body coiled to strike, you can lash out at distant enemies. 
While you are in this stance, you can use Attack of Opportunity 
against a creature that is outside your reach but within the 
reach you would have with a Lunge. If you do, you increase 
your range with the Strike by 5 feet. 


PARAGON'S GUARD +> 


| FIGHTER | STANCE | 

Requirements You are wielding a shield. 

Once you've had a moment to set your stance, you always have 
your shield ready without a thought. While you are in this stance, 
you constantly have your shield raised as if you'd used the Raise 
a Shield action, as long as you meet that action's requirements. 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


THE AGE OF 


Ve = 
CLASSES 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 


LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
-GAME 


Al 


GAME 


FASURE 


E Fi SHTER 


— 


ARCHER 


You take out your opponents from a distance with 
ranged weapons, and you excel at dispatching flying 
or other hard-to-reach enemies. 


TN yy 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Dexterity. Constitution and Wisdom helps with 
survivability, and Strength adds damage with propulsive 
weapons. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Medicine, Stealth, Thievery 


STARTING FEAT 
Point-Blank Shot 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Double Shot (4th), Triple Shot (6th), Debilitating Shot 
(10th), Multishot Stance (16th), Impossible Volley (18th) 


SPRING ATTACK *> 

[FIGHTER | PRESS | 

Requirements You are adjacent to an enemy. 
Springing away from one foe, you Strike at another. Stride up 
to your Speed, but you must end that movement within melee 
reach of a different enemy. At the end of your movement, 
make a melee Strike against an enemy now within reach. You 
can use Spring Attack while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or 
Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding 
movement type. 


14TH LEVEL 


DESPERATE FINISHER 2 FEAT 14 

Trigger You complete the last action on your turn, and your 
turn has not ended yet. 

Requirements You meet the requirements to use an action 
with the press trait. 

You throw everything into one last press. Use a single action 

that you know with the press trait as part of Desperate 

Finisher. You forgo the ability to use reactions until the start 

of your next turn. 


DETERMINATION «> 
Frequency once per day 
Your training allows you to shrug off your foes’ spells 
and conditions when the need is dire. Choose a single 
nonpermanent spell or condition that is affecting you. If you 
chose a condition, its effect on you ends. If you chose a spell, 
attempt to counteract the spell (your counteract level is equal 
to half your level, rounded up, and you attempt a Will save as 
your counteract check). 

This doesn't remove any Hit Point damage normally dealt 
by the spell or condition, and it doesn't prevent the spell or 
debilitating effect from affecting other allies or the environment 
around you. It cant remove an ongoing affliction or prevent 
such an affliction from inflicting conditions on you later. It can't 
remove conditions from the situation (such as prone or flanked). 
If the effect comes from a creature, hazard, or item of 20th level 
or higher, Determination can't remove its effect on you. 


GUIDING FINISH +> 
[FIGHTER | PRESS | 
Requirements You are wielding only a single one-handed 
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free. 
Using your weapon as a lever, you force your opponent 
to end up right where you want them. Make a Strike 
with the required weapon. If the Strike hits, you can 
move the target up to 10 feet into a space in your reach. 
You can move the target through your space during this 
movement. This follows the forced movement rules found on 
page 475. Your Strike gains the following failure effect. 
Failure You can force the creature to move as you would on a 
success, but you can move the target only 5 feet. 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


GUIDING RIPOSTE FEAT 14 


MULTISHOT STANCE *> FEAT 16 


| FIGHTER | 

Prerequisites Dueling Riposte 

By shifting your weight and angling your weapon, you guide 
your opponent to a more favorable position. When you use 
Dueling Riposte to Strike and you hit, you can move the target 
up to 10 feet into a space in your reach. This follows the forced 
movement rules found on page 475. 


IMPROVED TWIN RIPOSTE 
En 

Prerequisites Twin Riposte 
Your weapons are a blur, blocking and biting at your foes. At 
the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional reaction 
that you can use only to perform a Twin Riposte. You can 
use this extra reaction even if you are not benefiting from 
Twin Parry. 


STANCE SAVANT € 


Trigger You roll initiative. 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


| FIGHTER | STANCE | 

Prerequisites Triple Shot 

Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with 
reload O. 

You lock yourself in a stable position so you can fire swiftly 

and accurately. While you are in this stance, your penalty for 

Double Shot is reduced to -1, or -2 if you add the extra action 

to make three Strikes. If you move from your position, this 

stance ends. 


TWINNED D DEFENSE > 


FEAT 16 


Prerequisites Twin Parry 

Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, one in 
each hand. 

You're always ready to use your off-hand weapon to interfere 

with attacks against you. While you are in this stance, you 

constantly gain the benefits of the Twin Parry action. 


18TH LEVEL 


When there's imminent danger, you drop into a stance with a 
mere thought. Use an action that has the stance trait. 


Ds WEAPON FLURRY > FEAT 14 


| || 

Requirements You are wielding two weapons, each in a 
different hand. 

You lash out with both your weapons in a sudden frenzy. 

Strike twice, once with each weapon. 


WHIRLWIND STRIKE +> 


Í FIGHTER | FLOURISH} OPEN | 

You attack all nearby adversaries. Make a melee Strike against 
each enemy within your melee reach. Each attack counts 
toward your multiple attack penalty, but do not increase your 
penalty until you have made all your attacks. 


16TH LEVEL 


GRACEFUL POISE +> FEAT 16 


Prerequisites Double Slice 


FEAT 14 


IMPOSSIBLE VOLLEY +9? FEAT 18 


| FIGHTER | [roumsu| open | OPEN | 
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with the 
volley trait and reload O. 


You fire a volley at all foes in an area. Make one Strike with a 
-2 penalty against each enemy within a 10-foot-radius burst 
centered at or beyond your weapons volley range. Roll the 
damage only once for all targets. 

Each attack counts toward your multiple attack penalty, 
but do not increase your penalty until you have made all 
your attacks. 


SAVAGE CRITICAL 
The wounds you inflict are grievous. When you Strike with 
a weapon or unarmed attack for which you have legendary 
proficiency, you critically succeed if you roll a 19 on the die as 
long as that result is a success. This has no effect on a 19 if the 
result would be a failure. 


20TH LEVEL 


FEAT 18 


With the right positioning, your off-hand weapon can strike 
like a scorpion's stinger. While you are in this stance, if you 
make your second Strike from Double Slice with an agile 
weapon, Double Slice counts as one attack when calculating 
your multiple attack penalty. 


IMPROVED REFLEXIVE SHIELD 
EU 

Prerequisites Reflexive Shield 
Your shield can help save nearby allies. When you use Shield 
Block against damage resulting from a Reflex save, adjacent 
allies who would take damage due to Reflex saves against the 
same effect also benefit from the damage reduction. 


FEAT 16 


BOUNDLESS REPRISALS FEAT 20 
With a sixth sense for the flow of combat, you can quickly 
react to any situation as required. At the start of each 
enemy's turn, you gain a reaction you can use only during 
that turn for any reaction from a fighter feat or class feature. 


WEAPON SUPREMACY FEAT 20 
Your skill with weapons lets you attack swiftly at all times. 
You're permanently quickened. You can use your extra action 
only to Strike. 


, P». A E 3 : — 
S E 
- r | PATHFİNDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


T d 


The strength of your fist flows from your mind and spirit. You seek 
perfection—honing your body into a flawless instrument and your mind into 
an orderly bastion of wisdom. You’re a fierce combatant renowned for martial 


arts skills and combat stances that grant you unique fighting moves. While the challenge 
of mastering many fighting styles drives you to great heights, you also enjoy meditating 
on philosophical questions and discovering new ways to obtain peace and enlightenment. 


| Og 


KEY ABILITY 
STRENGTH OR DEXTERITY 


At 1st level, your class gives you 
an ability boost to your choice of 
Strength or Dexterity. 


HIT POINTS 


10 plus your Constitution modifier 
You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 
level thereafter. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You speed into the fray, dodging or leaping past obstacles with acrobatic maneuvers. 
You strike opponents in a rapid flurry of attacks, using your bare fists or wielding 
specialized weapons that you mastered during your monastic training. Stances let 
you change up your combat style for different situations, and ki abilities allow you 
to perform mystic feats like healing yourself and soaring through the air. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


Your perceptiveness lets you see through falsehoods, and your philosophical training 
provides insight into any situation. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


You climb up walls, dodge traps, overcome obstacles, and leap over pits. You usually 
stay toward the outside of the group to protect more vulnerable members, and you’re 
well suited to looking for danger or moving stealthily. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You diligently exercise, eat healthy foods, meditate, and study various philosophies. 
You might also take up a craft that you strive to perfect. 


b MIGHT... 


Maintain a regimen of physical training and meditation. 

* Face adversity with a calm and measured approach, never panicking or 
succumbing to despair. 

* Look to the future for ways you can improve, while remaining at peace with your 
present self. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 

* Marvel at your feats of physical prowess. 

* Think you're more than a bit uptight, given your vows and tenets. 
* Come to you for philosophical advice. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 
At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


PERCEPTION 


Trained in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 


Expert in Fortitude 
Expert in Reflex 
Expert in Will 


SKILLS 


Trained in a number of 
skills equal to 4 plus your 
Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 


Trained in simple weapons 
Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Untrained in all armor 
Expert in unarmored defense 


CLASS DC 


Trained in monk class DC 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


TABLE 3-13: MONK ADVANCEMENT 


Your 


Level Class Features 

1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, 
flurry of blows, monk feat, powerful fist 

2 Monk feat, skill feat 

3 General feat, incredible movement +10 feet, mystic 
strikes, skill increase 

4 Monk feat, skill feat 

5 Ability boosts, alertness, ancestry feat, expert 
strikes, skill increase 

6 Monk feat, skill feat 

7 General feat, incredible movement +15 feet, path to 
perfection, skill increase, weapon specialization 

8 Monk feat, skill feat 

9 Ancestry feat, metal strikes, monk expertise, 
skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, monk feat, skill feat 

11 General feat, incredible movement +20 feet, second 


path to perfection, skill increase 
12 Monk feat, skill feat 


13 Ancestry feat, graceful mastery, master strikes, 
skill increase 

14 Monk feat, skill feat 

15 Ability boosts, general feat, greater weapon 


specialization, incredible movement +25 feet, skill 
increase, third path to perfection 
16 Monk feat, skill feat 


17 Adamantine strikes, ancestry feat, graceful legend, 
skill increase 

18 Monk feat, skill feat 

19 General feat, incredible movement +30 feet, 


perfected form, skill increase 
20 Ability boosts, monk feat, skill feat 


CLASS FEATURES 


You gain these abilities as a monk. Abilities gained at higher 
levels list the requisite levels next to the features' names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st 
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies representing 
your basic training, which are noted at the start of this class. 


FLURRY OF BLOWS 


You can attack rapidly with fists, feet, elbows, knees, and 
other unarmed attacks. You gain the Flurry of Blows action. 


FLURRY OF BLOWS +> 
EIE 


Make two unarmed Strikes. If both hit the same creature, 


combine their damage for the purpose of resistances and 
weaknesses. Apply your multiple attack penalty to the Strikes 
normally. As it has the flourish trait, you can use Flurry of 
Blows only once per turn. 


MONK FEATS 


At 1st level and every even-numbered level thereafter, you 
gain a monk class feat. These begin on page 158. 


POWERFUL FIST 


You know how to wield your fists as deadly weapons. 
The damage die for your fist increases to 1d6 instead of 
1d4. Most people take a —2 circumstance penalty when 
making a lethal attack with nonlethal unarmed attacks, 
because they find it hard to use their fists with deadly 
force. You don’t take this penalty when making a lethal 
attack with your fist or any other unarmed attacks. 


SKILL FEATS eND 
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
feat. Skill feats are listed in Chapter 5 and have the skill 
trait. You must be trained or better in the corresponding 
skill to select a skill feat. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


INCREDIBLE MOVEMENT 3RD 


You move like the wind. You gain a +10-foot status 
bonus to your Speed whenever you’re not wearing armor. 
The bonus increases by 5 feet for every 4 levels you have 
beyond 3rd. 


MYSTIC STRIKES 3RD 


Focusing your will into your physical attacks imbues 
them with mystical energy. Your unarmed attacks 
become magical, allowing them to get past resistances to 
non-magical attacks. However, you still need an item such 
as handwraps of mighty blows to gain an item bonus to 
attack rolls or increase your attacks’ weapon damage dice. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a 
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become 
trained in one skill you’re untrained in, or become an 
expert in one skill in which you’re already trained. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a 
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and 
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a 
skill in which you’re already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At Sth level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 


score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 
if it starts out below 18. 


ALERTNESS STH 


You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency 
rank for Perception increases to expert. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry's entry in Chapter 2. 


EXPERT STRIKES STH 


You’ve practiced martial arts and have now surpassed 
your former skill. Your proficiency ranks for unarmed 
attacks and simple weapons increase to expert. 


PATH TO PERFECTION 7TH 


You have progressed along your to 
enlightenment. Choose your Fortitude, Reflex, or Will 


own path 


saving throw. Your proficiency rank for the chosen saving 
throw increases to master. When you roll a success on the 
chosen saving throw, you get a critical success instead. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH 


You've learned how to inflict greater injuries with the 
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an 
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you're a master, and 
4 if you're legendary. 


METAL STRIKES STH 


You can adjust your body to make unarmed attacks 
infused with the mystic energy of rare metals. Your 
unarmed attacks are treated as cold iron and silver. 
This allows you to deal more damage to a variety of 
supernatural creatures, such as demons, devils, and fey. 


MONK EXPERTISE STH 


Your proficiency rank for your monk class DC increases 
to expert. If you have ki spells, your proficiency rank for 
spell attacks and spell DCs with the tradition of magic 
you use for your ki spells increases to expert. 


SECOND PATH TO PERFECTION ATH 


You've learned to find perfection in every success. Choose 
a different saving throw than the one you chose for your 
path to perfection. Your proficiency rank for the chosen 
saving throw increases to master. If you roll a success with 
the chosen saving throw, you instead critically succeed. 


GRACEFUL MASTERY 13TH 


You move with perpetual grace in battle, eluding and 
turning aside blows. Your proficiency rank for unarmored 
defense increases to master. 


Wer tne n EE 


KEY TERMS 
You'll see the following key terms in many monk abilities. 

Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques 
that require too much exertion for you to perform frequently. 
You can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn. 

Incapacitation: An ability with this trait can take a 
character out of the fight. But when you use an incapacitation 
effect against a creature of higher level than you, you reduce 
the degree of success of your attack roll by one step, and 
that creature improves the degree of success of its saving 
throws for that effect by one step. 

Ki Spells: By tapping into a supernatural inner reserve 
called ki, you can create magical effects. Certain feats grant 
you special spells called ki spells, which are a type of focus 
spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus spell. When you 
gain your first ki spell, you also gain a focus pool of 1 Focus 
Point. You refill your focus pool during your daily preparations, 
and you regain 1 Focus Point by spending 10 minutes using 
the Refocus activity to meditate in order to reach inner peace. 

Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your 
level rounded up. Taking feats can give you more focus 
spells and increase the size of your focus pool, though your 
focus pool can never hold more than 3 points. See page 300. 

When you first gain a ki spell, decide whether your ki 
spells are divine or occult spells. You are trained in spell 
attack rolls and spell DCs of that tradition, and your key 
spellcasting ability is Wisdom. 

Stance: A stance is a general combat strategy that you 
enter by using an action with the stance trait, and that 
you remain in for some time. A stance lasts until you get 
knocked out, until its requirements (if any) are violated, 
until the encounter ends, or until you enter a new stance, 
whichever comes first. After you take an action that has 
the stance trait, you can't take another one for 1 round. You 
can enter or be in a stance only in encounter mode. 


MASTER STRIKES 13TH 


You have honed your skill in using your body as a 
weapon. Your proficiency ranks for unarmed attacks and 
simple weapons increase to master. 


GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION ISTH 


Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an 
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary. 


THIRD PATH TO PERFECTION ISTH 


You have made great progress in your personal studies 
of enlightenment. Choose one of the saving throws you 
selected for path to perfection or second path to perfection. 
Your proficiency rank for the chosen type of save increases 
to legendary. When you roll a critical failure on the chosen 
type of save, you get a failure instead. When you roll a 
failure on the chosen type of save against an effect that 
deals damage, you take half damage. 


CLASSES 


CL 


ASSES 


MONK FEATS 

If you need to look up a monk 
feat by name instead of by level, 
use this table. 


Feat Level 
Abundant Step 6 
Arrow Snatching 8 
Brawling Focus 2 
Crane Flutter 6 
Crane Stance 1 
Crushing Grab 2 
Dancing Leaf 2 
Deflect Arrow 4 


Diamond Fists 18 
Diamond Soul 12 
Disrupt Ki 12 
Dragon Roar 6 
Dragon Stance 1 
Elemental Fist 2 
Empty Body 18 
Enduring Quickness 20 
Enlightened Presence 16 
Flurry of Maneuvers 4 
Flying Kick 4 
Fuse Stance 20 
Guarded Movement 4 
Impossible Technique 20 
Improved Knockback 12 
Ironblood Stance 8 
Ironblood Surge 14 
Ki Blast 6 
Ki Rush 1 
Ki Strike 1 
Knockback Strike 10 
Master of Many Styles 16 
Meditative Focus 12 
Meditative Wellspring 18 
Mixed Maneuver 8 
Monastic Weaponry 1 
Mountain Quake 14 
Mountain Stance 1 
Mountain Stronghold 6 
Quivering Palm 16 
Shattering Strike 16 
Sleeper Hold 10 
Stance Savant 12 
Stand Still 4 
Stunning Fist 2 
Swift River 18 
Tangled Forest Rake 14 
Tangled Forest Stance 8 
Tiger Slash 6 
Tiger Stance 1 
Timeless Body 14 
Tongue of Sun and Moon 14 
Wall Run 8 
Water Step 6 
Whirling Throw 6 
Wholeness of Body 4 
Wild Winds Gust 14 
Wild Winds Initiate 8 
Wind Jump 10 
Winding Flow 10 
Wolf Drag 6 
Wolf Stance 1 


ADAMANTINE STRIKES 17TH 


When you focus your will into your limbs, your blows are as unyielding as the 
hardest of metals. Your unarmed attacks are treated as adamantine. 


GRACEFUL LEGEND 17TH 


Your sublime movement grants you unparalleled protection and offense. Your 
proficiency rank for unarmored defense increases to legendary, and your proficiency 
rank for your monk class DC increases to master. If you have ki spells, your 
proficiency rank for spell attack rolls and spell DCs with the tradition of magic you 
use for your ki spells increases to master. 


PERFECTED FORM 19TH 


You have purged incompetence from your techniques. On your first Strike of your turn, 
if you roll lower than 10, you can treat the attack roll as a 10. This is a fortune effect. 


MONK FEATS 


Every level at which you gain a monk feat, select one of the following feats. You must 
satisfy any prerequisites before taking the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


CRANE STANCE 9 FEAT1 
| wow | STANCE | 
Requirements You are unarmored. 
You enter the stance of a crane, holding your arms in an imitation of a cranes wings and 
using flowing, defensive motions. You gain a *1 circumstance bonus to AC, but the only 
Strikes you can make are crane wing attacks. These deal 1d6 bludgeoning damage; are in 
the brawling group; and have the agile, finesse, nonlethal, and unarmed traits. 

While in Crane Stance, reduce the DC for High Jump and Long Jump by 5, and when you 
Leap, you can move an additional 5 feet horizontally or 2 feet vertically. 


DRAGON STANCE *> FEAT 1 
Requirements You are unarmored. 
You enter the stance of a dragon and make powerful leg strikes like a lashing dragon's 
tail. You can make dragon tail attacks that deal 1d10 bludgeoning damage. They are in the 
brawling group and have the backswing, nonlethal, and unarmed traits. 

While in Dragon Stance, you can ignore the first square of difficult terrain while Striding. 


KI RUSH FEAT 1 
| wow | 

You can use ki to move with extraordinary speed and make yourself harder to hit. You gain 
the ki rush ki spell and a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. The rules for ki spells are summarized 
in the sidebar on page 157, and the full rules for focus spells appear on page 300. 


KI STRIKE FEAT 1 
Your study of the flow of mystical energy allows you to harness it into your physical strikes. 
You gain the ki strike ki spell and a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. The rules for ki spells are 
summarized in the sidebar on page 157, and the full rules for focus spells appear on page 300. 


MONASTIC WEAPONRY FEAT 1 


You have trained with the traditional weaponry of your monastery or school. You gain access 
to uncommon weapons that have the monk trait and become trained in simple and martial 


MONK UNARMED ATTACKS 


Some monk stances allow you to make special unarmed attacks while in those stances. These attacks are summarized here. 


Attack Damage Group Traits 

Crane wing 1d6 B Brawling Agile, finesse, nonlethal, unarmed 

Dragon tail 1d10 B Brawling Backswing, nonlethal, unarmed 

Falling stone 1d8 B Brawling Forceful, nonlethal, unarmed 

Iron sweep 1d8 B Brawling Nonlethal, parry, sweep, unarmed 

Lashing branch 1d8 S Brawling Agile, finesse, nonlethal, unarmed 

Tiger claw 1d8 S Brawling Agile, finesse, nonlethal, unarmed 

Wind crash* 1d6 S Brawling Agile, nonlethal, propulsive, unarmed 

Wolf jaw 1d8 P. Brawling Agile, backstabber, finesse, nonlethal, unarmed 


* Wild winds stance is a ki spell, so you can find out more about wind crash on page 402. 


monk weapons. When your proficiency rank for unarmed 
attacks increases to expert or master, your proficiency rank 
for these weapons increases to expert or master as well. 

You can use melee monk weapons with any of your monk 
feats or monk abilities that normally require unarmed attacks, 
though not if the feat or ability requires you to use a single 
specific type of attack, such as Crane Stance. 


M 
—. THE AGE OF 
LosT OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


ata STANCE “> FEAT 1 $ GAME 


Peaalranents You are unarmored and touching the ground. 
You enter the stance of an implacable mountain—a technique 
created by dwarven monks-allowing you to strike with the 
weight of an avalanche and block blows with your garments. The 
only Strikes you can make are falling stone unarmed attacks. 
These deal 1d8 bludgeoning damage; are in the brawling group; 
and have the forceful, nonlethal, and unarmed traits. 

While in Mountain Stance, you gain a +4 item bonus to AC and 
a +2 circumstance bonus to any defenses against being Shoved 
or Tripped. You have a Dexterity modifier cap to your AC of +0, 4 
meaning you don't add your Dexterity to your AC, and your 578 Sh 
Speeds are all reduced by 5 feet. The item bonus to AC from 4 
Mountain Stance is cumulative with armor potency runes on 

e 


Bar \\ave 


your explorer’s clothing, mage armor, and bracers of armor. 


TIGER STANCE > FEAT1 


Ier You are unarmored. 
You enter the stance of a tiger and can 
make tiger claw attacks. These deal 1d8 
slashing damage; are in the brawling group; and 
have the agile, finesse, nonlethal, and unarmed traits. On a 
critical success with your tiger claws, if you deal damage, the 
target takes 1d4 persistent bleed damage. 

As long as your Speed is at least 20 feet while in Tiger = 
Stance, you can Step 10 feet. F 


WOLF STANCE “> FEAT! GA 


CETUR You are unarmored. 

You enter the stance of a wolf, low to the ground 
with your hands held like fanged teeth. You can 
make wolf jaw unarmed attacks. These deal 1d8 


piercing damage; are in the brawling group; and have the 
agile, backstabber, finesse, nonlethal, and unarmed traits. 

If you're flanking a target while in Wolf Stance, your wolf 
jaw unarmed attacks also gain the trip trait. 


2ND LEVEL 


BRAWLING FOCUS FEAT 2 


You know how to make the most of your attacks when 
fighting hand-to-hand. You gain access to the critical 
specialization effects of unarmed strikes in the brawling 
group and weapons in the brawling group. If you have 
Monastic Weaponry, you also gain the critical specialization 
effects of all monk weapons in which you are trained. 


CRUSHING GRAB FEAT 2 


Like a powerful constrictor, you crush targets in your 
unyielding grasp. When you successfully Grapple a creature, 
you can deal bludgeoning damage to that creature equal to 
your Strength modifier. You can make this attack nonlethal 
with no penalty. 


DANCING LEAF FEAT 2 


You are as light as a leaf whirling in the breeze. When you 
Leap or succeed at a High Jump or Long Jump, increase the 
distance you jump by 5 feet. When calculating the damage 
you take from falling, don’t count any distance fallen while 
you are adjacent to a wall. 


ELEMENTAL FIST 
Prerequisites Ki Strike 
You call upon the power of the elements, infusing your ki 
with elemental energy and allowing your attacks to deal 
energy damage. When you cast ki strike, in addition to the 
damage types normally available, you can deliver the extra 
damage in the form of a gust of storm-tossed wind (dealing 
electricity damage and gaining the air trait), a chunk of 
stone (dealing bludgeoning damage and gaining the earth 
trait), a flickering flame (dealing fire damage), or a crashing 
wave of frigid water (dealing cold damage and gaining the 
water trait). 


STUNNING FIST 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 2 


Prerequisites Flurry of Blows 


4TH LEVEL 


DEFLECT ARROW > FEAT 4 

| Monk | 

Trigger You are the target of a physical ranged attack. 

Requirements You're aware of the attack, are not flat-footed 
against it, and have a hand free. 

You gain a +4 circumstance bonus to AC against the triggering 

attack. If the attack misses, you have deflected it. You cannot 

use this feat to deflect unusually massive ranged projectiles 

(such as boulders or ballista bolts). 


FLURRY OF MANEUVERS 


| monk | 

Prerequisites expert in Athletics 

You flurry is a combination of maneuvers. You can replace one 
or both of your attacks during a Flurry of Blows with Grapples, 
Shoves, or Trips. 


FLYING KICK >> 
| monk f 

You launch yourself at a foe. Make a Leap or attempt a High 
Jump or Long Jump. At the end of the jump, if you're adjacent 
to a foe, you can immediately Strike that foe with an unarmed 
attack, even if the foe is in midair. You fall to the ground after 
the Strike. If the distance you fall is no more than the height of 
your jump, you land upright and take no damage. 


GUARDED MOVEMENT 
| Monk | 

Your guard is up, even while moving. You gain a +4 circumstance 
bonus to AC against reactions triggered by your movement. 


STAND STILL > FEAT 4 

| Monk | 

Trigger A creature within your reach uses a move action or 
leaves a square during a move action it's using. 

You strike out when your foe tries to flee. Make a melee Strike 

against the triggering creature. If the attack is a critical hit and 

the trigger was a move action, you disrupt that action. 


WHOLENESS OF BODY 
Prerequisites ki spells 
You can restore your health by tapping into your ki. You 
gain the wholeness of body ki spell (page 402). Increase the 
number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


BTH LEVEL 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


The focused power of your flurry threatens to overwhelm 
your opponent. When you target the same creature with two 
Strikes from your Flurry of Blows, you can try to stun the 
creature. If either Strike hits and deals damage, the target 
must succeed at a Fortitude save against your class DC or 
be stunned 1 (or stunned 3 on a critical failure). This is an 
incapacitation effect. 


ABUNDANT STEP FEAT 6 
E 

Prerequisites incredible movement, ki spells 

You can teleport yourself a short distance. You gain the 
abundant step ki spell (page 401). Increase the number of 
Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


CRANE FLUTTER 2 
MM te: Crane Stance 
Trigger You are targeted with a melee attack by an attacker 
you Can see. 

Requirements You are in Crane Stance. 

You interpose your arm between yourself and your opponent. 
Your circumstance bonus to AC from Crane Stance increases to 
+3 against the triggering attack. If the attack misses you, you 
can immediately make a crane wing Strike against the attacker 
at a -2 penalty, even if the attacker isn't within your reach. 


DRAGON ROAR *> FEAT 6 
LAuproRY | EMOTION | FEAR | MENTAL | MONK | 

Prerequisites Dragon Stance 

Requirements You are in Dragon Stance. 

You bellow, instilling fear in your enemies. Enemies within a 
15-foot emanation must succeed at a Will save against your 
Intimidation DC or be frightened 1 (frightened 2 on a critical 
failure). When a creature frightened by the roar begins its turn 
adjacent to you, it cant reduce its frightened value below 1 
on that turn. Your first attack that hits a frightened creature 
after you roar and before the end of your next turn gains a 
*4 circumstance bonus to damage. 


FEAT 6 


After you use Dragon Roar, you cant use it again for 1d4 rounds. 
Its effects end immediately if you leave Dragon Stance. Creatures 
in the area of your roar are then temporarily immune for 1 minute. 


KI BLAST FEAT 6 


Prerequisites ki spells 


You can unleash an impactful cone of force by channeling 
your ki. You gain the ki blast ki spell (page 401). Increase the 
number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


MOUNTAIN STRONGHOLD «> FEAT6 


Prerequisites Mountain Stance 
Requirements You are in Mountain Stance. 


You focus on your connection to the earth and call upon 
the mountain to block attacks against you. You gain a +2 
circumstance bonus to AC until the beginning of your next turn. 

Special If you have this feat, the Dexterity modifier cap to 
your AC while you're in Mountain Stance increases from +0 to +1. 


TIGER SLASH 99 FEAT 6 


Prerequisites Tiger Stance 


<N 


INTRODUCTION 


ANGESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 
FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


KI MONK 


Centering yourself, you call forth the internal magical 
energy that dwells within all living things. This ki 
can empower your body or flash out as pure energy. 


TY pv 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Strength. Wisdom empowers your ki spells, 
Perception, and Will saves. Constitution and Dexterity 
help your physical defenses. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Athletics, Occultism, Stealth 


STARTING FEAT 
Ki Strike (occult) 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 

Mountain Stance (1st), Elemental Fist (2nd), Wholeness 
of Body (Ath), Ki Blast (6th), Meditative Focus (12th), 
Quivering Palm (16th), Empty Body (20th) 


Requirements You are in Tiger Stance. 

You make a fierce swipe with both hands. Make a tiger claw 
Strike. It deals two extra weapon damage dice (three extra 
dice if you're 14th level or higher), and you can push the 
target 5 feet away as if you had successfully Shoved them. 
If the attack is a critical success and deals damage, add your 
Strength modifier to the persistent bleed damage from your 
tiger claw. 


WATER STEP FEAT 6 
You can Stride across liquid and surfaces that don't support 
your weight. This benefit lasts only during your movement. If 
you end your movement on a surface that can't support you, 
you fall in or it collapses as normal. 


WHIRLING THROW +> FEAT 6 
MM ents You have a creature grabbed or restrained. 

You propel your grabbed or restrained foe a great distance. 
You can throw the creature any distance up to 10 feet, plus 
5 feet x your Strength modifier. If you successfully throw the 
creature, it takes bludgeoning damage equal to your Strength 
modifier plus 1d6 per 10 feet you threw it. 

Attempt an Athletics check against the foe's Fortitude DC. You 
take a -2 circumstance penalty to your check if the target is one 
size larger than you and a -4 circumstance penalty if it's larger 
than that. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your check if the 
target is one size smaller than you and a +4 circumstance bonus 
if it's smaller than that. 

Critical Success You throw the creature the desired distance 
and it lands prone. 

Success You throw the creature the desired distance. 

Failure You don't throw the creature. 

Critical Failure You don't throw the creature, and it's no longer 
grabbed or restrained by you. 


WOLF DRAG 9$ FEAT 6 
| MONK | 

Prerequisites Wolf Stance 

Requirements You are in Wolf Stance. 

You rip your enemy off their feet. Make a wolf jaw Strike. Your 
wolf jaw gains the fatal d12 trait for this Strike, and if the attack 
succeeds, you knock the target prone. 


8TH LEVEL 


ARROW SNATCHING FEAT8 
MM te: Deflect Arrow 

You pluck missiles from the air and hurl them back at their 
source. When you successfully deflect an attack with Deflect 
Arrow, as part of that reaction, you can immediately make a 
ranged Strike against the attacker using the projectile you 
deflected. This is a thrown weapon with the same range 
increment and effect on a hit as the triggering attack. 


IRONBLOOD STANCE +> 
| Monk f stance | 
Requirements You are unarmored. 
You enter the stance of impenetrable iron, refusing to yield to 
any blow. You can make iron sweep unarmed attacks. These 
deal 1d8 bludgeoning damage; are in the brawling group; and 
have the nonlethal, parry, sweep, and unarmed traits. 

While in Ironblood Stance, you gain resistance 2 to all 
damage. The resistance increases to 3 at 12th level, to 4 at 
16th level, and to 5 at 20th level. 


MIXED MANEUVER 93 
Prerequisite master in Athletics 
You combine two different maneuvers together into a single 
flowing whole. Choose any two of Grapple, Shove, and Trip. 
Attempt both of the attacks you chose against the same or 
different creatures, but don't apply the multiple attack penalty 
until after resolving both attacks. 


TANGLED FOREST STANCE -9 
| monk | STANCE | 

Requirements You are unarmored. 
You extend your arms like gnarled branches to interfere 
with your foes’ movements. You can make lashing branch 
unarmed attacks. These deal 1d8 slashing damage; are in the 
brawling group; and have the agile, finesse, nonlethal, and 
unarmed traits. 

While you're in Tangled Forest Stance and can act, every 
enemy in your reach that tries to move away from you must 
succeed at a Reflex save, Acrobatics check, or Athletics check 
against your class DC or be immobilized for that action. If you 
prefer, you can allow the enemy to move. 


WALL RUN +> 


FEAT8 


FEAT8 


FEAT8 


FEAT8 


You defy gravity, traversing vertical planes as easily as 
the ground. Stride up to your Speed. You must start your 
movement on a horizontal surface. During this movement, 
you can run up vertical surfaces, like walls, at your full 
Speed. If you end the Stride off the ground, you fall after 
taking your next action or when your turn ends, whichever 
comes first (though you can Grab an Edge, if applicable). If 
you have Water Step or a similar ability, Wall Run lets you 
run along flimsy vertical surfaces, as well as vertical liquids, 
such as a waterfall. 


WILD WINDS INITIATE 
Prerequisites ki spells 
You learn a mystical stance that lets you attack from a 
distance. You gain the wild winds stance ki spell (page 402). 
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 
While entering the stance is a ki spell, the wind crash Strikes 
the stance grants are not, so you can use them as often as you 
like while in the stance. 


FEAT8 


10TH LEVEL 


KNOCKBACK STRIKE +> FEAT 10 
| CONCENTRATE | MONK | 

You focus your strength into a blow powerful enough to push 
an enemy away from you. Make an unarmed Strike. If you hit, 
attempt an Athletics check to Shove the target. This attack 
uses the same multiple attack penalty as your Strike, and 
doesn't count toward your multiple attack penalty. 


SLEEPER HOLD +> 


FEAT 10 


| INCAPACITATION | MONK | 
Requirements You have a creature grabbed or restrained. 


You pinch crucial points of your target's nervous system, 

impeding its ability to function. Attempt an Athletics check to 

Grapple the creature, with the following success and critical 

success effects instead of the usual effects. 

Critical Success The target falls unconscious for 1 minute, 
though it remains standing and doesn't drop what it holds. 

Success The target is clumsy 1 until the end of its next turn. 


WIND JUMP FEAT 10 


Prerequisites ki spells 

You gather the wind beneath you, allowing you to soar as you 
jump. You gain the wind jump ki spell (page 402). Increase the 
number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


WINDING FLOW «> 

| Monk | 

Frequency once per round 
Any journey consists of more than simply reaching your 
destination. You use two of the following actions in any order: 
Stand, Step, and Stride. You can't use the same action twice. 


12TH LEVEL 


DIAMOND SOUL FEAT 12 


m 


You have fortified your body and mind against eldritch effects. 
You gain a +1 status bonus to saving throws against magic. 


DISRUPT KI 95 FEAT 12 
| MONK | NEGATIVE | 

Make an unarmed Strike. If it deals damage to a living creature, 
you block that creature's inner life force. The creature takes 
2d6 persistent negative damage and is enfeebled 1 until the 
persistent damage ends. If you're 18th level or higher, this 
deals 3d6 persistent negative damage instead. 


IMPROVED KNOCKBACK 

Prerequisites master in Athletics 
When you successfully Shove a creature, increase both the 
distance you can push the creature and the distance you can 
move to follow along with the target by 5 feet on a success 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 12 


| CLASSES 


EQUIPMENT 
Esc 

; ‘SPELLS 
Im 

- THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
. BAME 


| B TREASURE 


ADD " 
APPEND 


$ 
E ed 
X 2d 


SAMPLE MONK 


CRANE MONK 


Striving for grace in all things, you mimic the fluid 
movements of the crane. Your strikes are quick as 
the wind and your mind clear as a placid pool. 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Dexterity for finesse attacks and high defenses. 
A good Wisdom lets you perceive dangers and act 
quickly, and Constitution improves your hardiness. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Nature, Religion, Stealth 


STARTING FEAT 


Crane Stance 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 

Dancing Leaf (2nd), Flying Kick (Ath), Crane Flutter (6th), 
Winding Flow (10th), Stance Savant (12th), Enduring 
Quickness (20th) 


or 10 feet on a critical success. If you push the target into an 
obstacle, it takes bludgeoning damage equal to 6 plus your 
Strength modifier, or 8 plus your Strength modifier if you have 
legendary proficiency in Athletics. 


MEDITATIVE FOCUS FEAT 12 


eS Prerequisites ki spells 


Your meditation is so effective that you can achieve a 

deep focus. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since 

the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when 
you Refocus instead of 1. 


STANCE SAVANT € FEAT 12 


Trigger You roll initiative. 
You enter a stance without a thought. Use an action that has 
the stance trait. 


14TH LEVEL 


IRONBLOOD SURGE «> FEAT 14 
Ed cs Ironblood Stance 

Requirements You are in Ironblood Stance. 

You steel yourself, preparing to resist oncoming attacks and 
using your muscles to absorb the impact. You gain the benefits 
of your iron sweeps parry trait (a +1 circumstance bonus to 
AC until the start of your next turn) and your resistance from 
Ironblood Stance increases to your Strength modifier (if it's 
higher) for the same duration. 


MOUNTAIN QUAKE «> 
MM tes Mountain Stronghold 
Requirements You are in Mountain Stance. 
You stomp, shaking the earth beneath you. Creatures on the 
ground within a 20-foot emanation take damage equal to your 
Strength modifier (minimum 0), with a basic Fortitude save 
against your class DC. On a failure, they also fall prone. After 
you use this action, you can't use it again for 1d4 rounds. 
Special If you have this feat, the Dexterity modifier cap to 
your AC while using Mountain Stance increases from +1 to +2. 


TANGLED FOREST RAKE *> FEAT 14 
| MONK | 

Prerequisites Tangled Forest Stance 

Requirements You are in Tangled Forest Stance. 

You reposition foes with raking attacks. Make a lashing branch 
Strike. If you hit and deal damage, you force the target to move 
5 feet into a space within your reach. This follows the forced 
movement rules found on page 475. 


TIMELESS BODY 
| MONK | 


You cease aging. In addition, you gain a +2 status bonus to 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


saving throws against poisons and diseases, and you gain 
resistance to poison damage equal to half your level. 


TONGUE OF SUN AND MOON 
[vow ] 


You have transcended the barriers between words and 
meaning. You can speak and understand all spoken languages. 


WILD WINDS GUST >> FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


pM Wild Winds [nitrate 
Requirements You are in Wild Winds Stance. 


You store up energy and release it in an enormous gust 
of rushing wind. Make a wind crash Strike against each 
creature in your choice of a 30-foot cone or a 60 foot line. 
These attacks all count toward your multiple attack penalty, 
but the penalty doesn't increase until after you make all 
the attacks. 


16TH LEVEL 


ENLIGHTENED PRESENCE FEAT 16 


You /ou exude an aura of resolve. You and allies within 15 feet 
of you gain a *2 status bonus to Will saving throws against 
mental effects. 


MASTER OF MANY STYLES € FEAT 16 


Prerequisites Stance Savant 

Trigger Your turn begins. 

You move between stances in an unceasing dance. You use an 
action with the stance trait. 


QUIVERING PALM 
Prerequisites ki spells 
Your strikes can kill foes. You gain the quivering palm ki spell 
(page 401). Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus 
pool by 1. 


SHATTERING STRIKE “> 
The force of your considered blow shatters objects and 
defenses alike. Make an unarmed Strike. It bypasses the 
target’s resistances. If the target has Hardness, the Strike 
treats the Hardness as if it were half its value. 


18TH LEVEL 


DIAMOND FISTS FEAT 18 
Your body hardens as you combine your attacks, making 
your finishing blows more damaging. Your unarmed attacks 
gain the forceful trait. Any that already had this trait instead 
increase their weapon damage dice by one step. 


FEAT 16 


FEAT 16 


EMPTY BODY FEAT 18 


Prerequisites ki spells 

You transmute your body into an ethereal form. You gain the 
empty body ki spell (page 401). Increase the number of Focus 
Points in your focus pool by 1. 


MEDITATIVE WELLSPRING 


FEAT 18 


Prerequisites Meditative Focus 

When you clear your mind, your focus comes flowing back in a 
powerful rush. If you have spent at least 3 Focus Points since 
the last time you Refocused, you recover 3 Focus Points when 
you Refocus instead of 1. 


SWIFT RIVER & 

Trigger Your turn ends and you have a status penalty to your 
Speed or are immobilized or slowed. 

You flow like water, avoiding all restraints. End one status 

penalty to your speed, or end one immobilized or slowed 

condition affecting you. 


20TH LEVEL 


ENDURING QUICKNESS FEAT 20 


FEAT 18 


You move as fast and as high as the wind itself. You're 
permanently quickened. You can use your extra action to 
Stride or Leap, or to provide one of the actions needed for a 
High Jump or Long Jump. 


FUSE STANCE 

Prerequisites at least two stances 
You have combined two stances into a single stance all your 
own. When you take this feat, choose two stances you know 
and combine them into a single fused stance. Give your new 
fused stance a unique name. When you enter your fused 
stance, you gain all the effects of both stances, including the 
requirements and restrictions. 

You cant fuse stances with fundamentally incompatible 
requirements or restrictions (such as Mountain Stance 
and Crane Stance, which both require using only one type 
of Strike). 


IMPOSSIBLE TECHNIQUE 2 
| FORTUNE | MONK | 
Trigger An enemy's attack hits you or you fail a saving throw 
against an enemy's ability. 

Requirements You are not armored or fatigued. 

You execute a maneuver that defies possibility. If the triggering 
effect was an enemy's attack hitting you, the enemy rerolls 
the attack roll and uses the lower result. If the triggering 
effect was you failing a saving throw, you reroll the saving 
throw and use the higher result. 


FEAT 20 


FEAT 20 


CLASSES 


S. 
EQUIPMENT 

" 

SPELLS 

t 


F3 
rn 
r 


.. THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


| proa THE 


r 


nEn cone Rueno} 


KEY ABILITY 
STRENGTH OR DEXTERITY 


At 1st level, your class gives you 
an ability boost to your choice of 
Strength or Dexterity. 


RANGER 


Some rangers believe civilization wears down the soul, but still needs to be 

protected from wild creatures. Others say nature needs to be protected from 
the greedy, who wish to tame its beauty and plunder its treasures. You could 
champion either goal, or both. You might be a scout, tracker, or hunter of fugitives or beasts, 
haunting the edge of civilization or exploring the wilds. You know how to live off the land and 
are skilled at spotting and taking down both opportune prey and hated enemies. 


HIT POINTS 


10 plus your Constitution modifier 
You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 
level thereafter. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You can single out particular foes to hunt, making you better at defeating them. 
You target and brutalize your chosen foe with either a bow or melee weapons, while 
supporting your allies with your skills. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


When you speak, it’s with the voice of practical experience, especially involving 
wilderness exploration. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


You guide your allies through the wilderness or follow tracks. You keep an eye out 
for trouble, constantly alert for danger even when it’s not overt. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You craft weapons and train animals in preparation for your next venture. If 
you prefer to get outside, you might go on hunts or scout nearby areas to better 
understand your environment. 


YOU MIGHT... 


* Respect the raw power of nature and understand how to make the best of 
its bounty. 

* Enjoy the thrill of the hunt. 

* Scout out ahead of the party, reconnoitering dangers before combat begins. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Call upon you to protect them from the wilds or the encroachment of civilization. 
* Expect you to be a quiet or taciturn loner. 
* Think there is something dangerous and wild about you. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 
At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


PERCEPTION 


Expert in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 
Expert in Fortitude 
Expert in Reflex 
Trained in Will 


SKILLS 

Trained in Nature 

Trained in Survival 

Trained in a number of additional 
skills equal to 4 plus your 
Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 


Trained in simple weapons 
Trained in martial weapons 
Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Trained in light armor 
Trained in medium armor 
Trained in unarmored defense 


CLASS DE 


Trained in ranger class DC 


DATHFH CORE RULEBOOK 


TABLE 3-14: RANGER ADVANCEMENT 


Your 


Class Features 


Level 
1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, hunt 
prey, hunter’s edge, ranger feat 


2 Ranger feat, skill feat 

3 General feat, iron will, skill increase 

4 Ranger feat, skill feat 

5 Ability boosts, ancestry feat, ranger weapon 
expertise, skill increase, trackless step 

6 Ranger feat, skill feat 

7 Evasion, general feat, skill increase, vigilant senses, 
weapon specialization 

8 Ranger feat, skill feat 

9 Ancestry feat, natures edge, ranger expertise, 
skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, ranger feat, skill feat 

11 General feat, juggernaut, medium armor expertise, 
skill increase, wild stride 

12 Ranger feat, skill feat 

13 Ancestry feat, skill increase, weapon mastery 

14 Ranger feat, skill feat 

15 Ability boosts, general feat, greater weapon 
specialization, improved evasion, incredible senses, 
skill increase 

16 Ranger feat, skill feat 

17 Ancestry feat, masterful hunter, skill increase 

18 Ranger feat, skill feat 

19 General feat, second skin, skill increase, swift prey 


20 Ability boosts, ranger feat, skill feat 


CLASS FEATURES 

You gain these abilities as a ranger. Abilities gained at 
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to 
the features' names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, 
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that 
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are 
noted at the start of this class. 


HUNT PREY 


When you focus your attention on a single foe, you become 
unstoppable in your pursuit. You gain the Hunt Prey action. 


HUNT PREY +> 

Í CONCENTRATE | RANGER | 
You designate a single creature as your prey and focus your 
attacks against that creature. You must be able to see or hear 
the prey, or you must be tracking the prey during exploration. 


You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks 
when you Seek your prey and a +2 circumstance bonus to 
Survival checks when you Track your prey. You also ignore the 
penalty for making ranged attacks within your second range 
increment against the prey you're hunting. 

You can have only one creature designated as your prey 
at a time. If you use Hunt Prey against a creature when you 
already have a creature designated, the prior creature loses 
the designation and the new prey gains the designation. Your 
designation lasts until your next daily preparations. 


HUNTER'S EDGE 


You have trained for countless hours to become a more 
skilled hunter and tracker, gaining an additional benefit 
when you Hunt Prey depending on the focus of your 
training. Choose a hunter's edge. 

Flurry: You have trained to unleash a devastating 
flurry of attacks upon your prey. Your multiple attack 
penalty for attacks against your hunted prey is -3 (-2 
with an agile weapon) on your second attack of the turn 
instead of —5, and —6 (-4 with an agile weapon) on your 
third or subsequent attack of the turn, instead of -10. 

Precision: You have trained to aim for your prey's weak 
points. The first time you hit your hunted prey in a round, 
you also deal 1d8 additional precision damage. (Precision 
damage increases the damage you already deal, using the 
same type, but is ineffective against creatures that lack vital 
organs or weak points.) At 11th level, the extra damage 
increases to 2d8 precision damage, and at 19th level, the 
extra damage increases to 3d8 precision damage. 

Outwit: You are talented at outwitting and evading 
your prey. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Deception 
checks, Intimidation checks, Stealth checks, and any checks 
to Recall Knowledge about the prey, and a +1 circumstance 
bonus to AC against your prey's attacks. 


RANGER FEATS 


At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a ranger 
class feat. Ranger feats are listed beginning on page 170. 


SKILL FEATS END 
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
feat. Skill feats appear in Chapter 5 and have the skill 
trait. You must be trained or better in the corresponding 
skill to select a skill feat. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


IRON WILL 3RD 


Your training has hardened your resolve. Your proficiency 
rank for Will saves increases to expert. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a 


skill increase. You can use this increase to either become 
trained in one skill, or become an expert in one skill in 
which you’re already trained. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a 
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and 
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a 
skill in which you’re already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At Sth level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 
score increases it by 1 if it's already 18 or above, or by 2 
if it starts out below 18. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at Sth level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2. 


RANGER WEAPON EXPERTISE STH 


You’ve dedicated yourself to mastering your weapons. Your 
proficiency ranks for simple weapons, martial weapons, 
and unarmed attacks increase to expert. You gain access to 
the critical specialization effects of all such weapons and 
unarmed attacks when attacking your hunted prey. 


TRACKLESS STEP STH 


When you move through natural terrains, you are difficult 
to track. You always gain the benefits of the Cover Tracks 
action in such terrains, without moving at half your Speed. 


EVASION 7TH 


You've learned to move quickly to avoid explosions, 
dragons’ breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for 
Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success 
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead. 


VIGILANT SENSES 7TH 


Through your adventuring, you've developed keen 
awareness and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank 
for Perception increases to master. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH 


You've learned how to inflict greater injuries with the 
weapons you know best. You deal 2. additional damage 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an 
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you're a master, and 
to 4 if you're legendary. 


NATURE'S EDGE STH 


You always find the weak points in your foes’ defenses 
when they’re on unfavorable terrain. Enemies are flat- 
footed to you if they’re in natural difficult terrain or in 
difficult terrain resulting from a snare. 


KEY TERMS 
You'll see these key terms in many ranger class features. 

Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques 
that require too much exertion for you to perform 
frequently. You can use only 1 action with the flourish trait 
per turn. 

Open: These maneuvers work only as the first salvo in 
the attacks you make on your turn. You can use an action 
with the open trait only if you haven't used an action 
with the attack or open trait yet this turn. 

Press: Actions with this trait allow you to follow up 
earlier attacks. An action with the press trait can be 
used only if you are currently affected by a multiple 
attack penalty. You can't use a press action when it's not 
your turn, even if you use the Ready activity. 

Some actions with the press trait also grant an effect 
on a failure. The effects that are added on a failure don't 
apply on a critical failure. If your press action succeeds, 
you can choose to apply the failure effect instead. (For 
example, you may wish to do this when an attack deals 
no damage due to resistance.) 


RANGER EXPERTISE STH 


You’ve practiced your techniques to make them harder 
to resist. Your proficiency rank for your ranger class DC 
increases to expert. 


JUGGERNAUT ATH 


Your body is accustomed to physical hardship and 
resistant to ailments. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude 
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a 
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead. 


MEDIUM ARMOR EXPERTISE ITH 


You’ve learned to defend yourself better against attacks. 
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor, 
and unarmored defense increase to expert. 


WILD STRIDE ITH 


You move quickly through obstacles, whether they’re 
tumbled stone, tangled undergrowth, or sucking mud. 
You can ignore the effects of non-magical difficult terrain. 
As normal for ignoring difficult terrain, this also lets you 
treat the hindrances of greater difficult terrain as those of 
difficult terrain. 


WEAPON MASTERY I3TH 


You fully understand the intricacies of your weapons. 
Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons, martial 
weapons, and unarmed attacks increase to master. 


GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION ISTH 


Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an 
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary. 


| CLASSES 


m 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 
E 
ES 
| THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
= GAME 


" " 


| B TREASURE 


“| JSATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


RANGER FEATS 

If you need to look up a ranger 
feat by name instead of by level, 
use this table. 


Feat Level 
Animal Companion 1 
Blind-Fight 8 
Camouflage 10 
Companion's Cry 4 
Crossbow Ace 1 
Deadly Aim 8 
Disrupt Prey 4 
Distracting Shot 12 
Double Prey 12 
Far Shot 4 
Favored Enemy 4 
Favored Terrain 2 
Greater Distracting Shot 16 
Hazard Finder 8 
Hunted Shot 1 
Hunter's Aim 2 
Impossible Flurry 18 
Impossible Volley 18 
Improved Twin Riposte 16 
Incredible Companion 10 
Legendary Monster Hunter 16 
Legendary Shot 20 
Lightning Snares 12 
Manifold Edge 18 
Master Monster Hunter 10 
Masterful Companion 18 


Mature Animal Companion 6 


Monster Hunter 1 
Monster Warden 2 
Penetrating Shot 10 
Perfect Shot 18 
Powerful Snares 8 
Quick Draw 2 
Quick Snares 6 
Running Reload 4 
Scout's Warning 4 
Second Sting 12 
Sense the Unseen 14 
Shadow Hunter 18 
Shared Prey 14 
Side by Side 12 
Skirmish Strike 6 
Snap Shot 6 
Snare Specialist 4 
Specialized Companion 16 
Stealthy Companion 14 
Swift Tracker 6 
Targeting Shot 14 
Terrain Master 8 
To the Ends of the Earth 20 
Triple Threat 20 
Twin Parry 4 
Twin Riposte 10 
Twin Takedown 1 
Ubiquitous Snares 16 
Ultimate Skirmisher 20 
Warden's Boon 8 
Warden's Guidance 14 
Warden's Step 10 
Wild Empathy 2 


IMPROVED EVASION ISTH 


Your ability to elude danger is matchless. Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases 
to legendary. When you roll a critical failure on a Reflex save, you get a failure instead. 
When you roll a failure on a Reflex save against a damaging effect, you take half damage. 


INCREDIBLE SENSES ISTH 


You notice things almost impossible for an ordinary person to detect. Your proficiency 
rank for Perception increases to legendary. 


MASTERFUL HUNTER 17TH 


You have honed your abilities as a hunter to incredible levels. Your proficiency rank 
for your ranger class DC increases to master. When using a ranged weapon that you 
have master proficiency in, you can ignore the penalty if attacking your hunted prey 
within the weapon’s second and third range increments. 

If you have master proficiency in Perception, you gain a +4 circumstance bonus to 
Perception checks when you Seek your prey, and if you have master proficiency in 
Survival, you gain a +4 circumstance bonus to Survival checks when you Track your prey. 

You also gain an additional benefit depending on your hunter’s edge. 

Flurry: You can blend your weapon mastery with skillful targeting to make a 
series of precise attacks. If you have master proficiency with your weapon, your 
multiple attack penalty for attacks against your hunted prey is -2 (-1 with an agile 
weapon) on your second attack of the turn, and -4 (-2 with an agile weapon) on 
your third and subsequent attacks of the turn. 

Precision: Your weapon mastery allows you to hit your prey's vital areas multiple 
times. The second time in a round you hit your hunted prey, you also deal 1d8 
precision damage. At 19th level, your second hit in a round against your hunted prey 
deals 2d8 precision damage, and your third hit in a round against your hunted prey 
deals 1d8 precision damage. 

Outwit: Your mastery of skills allows you to overwhelm your prey. If you have 
master proficiency in Deception, Intimidation, Stealth, or the skill you use to Recall 
Knowledge about your prey, increase the circumstance bonus against the prey with 
that skill from +2 to +4. If you have master proficiency with your armor, increase the 
circumstance bonus to AC against the prey from «1 to 42. 


SECOND SKIN ISTH 
Your armor has become akin to a second skin for you. Your proficiency ranks 
for light armor, medium armor, and unarmored defense increase to master. When 
wearing light or medium armor, you can rest normally, rather than receiving poor 
rest that leaves you fatigued. 


SWIFT PREY ISTH 


You size up your prey with only a glance. You can use Hunt Prey as a free action if 
it’s your first action of your turn. 


RANGER FEATS 


At every level that you gain a ranger feat, you can select one of the following. You must 
satisfy any prerequisites before taking the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


ANIMAL COMPANION FEAT 1 
Í RANGER | 

You gain the service of a young animal companion that travels with you and obeys simple 
commands as best as it can. See Animal Companions on page 214. When you Hunt Prey, your 
animal companion gains the action's benefits and your hunter's edge benefit if you have one. 


CROSSBOW ACE FEAT 1 If you have the wild stride class feature, you gain a INTRODUCTION 
| RANGER | second benefit while in your favored terrain, depending on 
You have a deep understanding of the crossbow. When you're your choice. 


wielding a crossbow and use Hunt Prey or use Interact to * Aquatic You gain a swim Speed equal to your Speed. If ANCESTRIES 8 
reload your crossbow, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to you already had a swim Speed, you gain a +10-foot status BACKGROUNDS 
the damage roll on your next Strike with that crossbow. If the bonus to your swim Speed. i ] 
crossbow is a simple crossbow, also increase the damage die * Arctic You need to eat and drink only one-tenth as much 
size for that attack by one step (page 279). You must make as usual, you aren't affected by severe or extreme cold, 
the attack before the end of your next turn or these benefits and you can walk across ice and snow at full Speed SKILLS 
are lost. without needing to Balance. 

* Desert You need to eat and drink only one-tenth as FEATS 
HUNTED SHOT > FEAT 1 much as usual, you aren't affected by severe or extreme 
FLOURISH | RANGER | heat, and you can walk along sand at full Speed without EQUIPMENT 
Frequency once per round needing to Balance. 
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with reload 0. * Forest, Mountain, or Underground You gain a climb Speed SPELLS 
You take two quick shots against the one you hunt. Make two equal to your Speed. If you already had a climb Speed, 
Strikes against your prey with the required weapon. If both you gain a +10-foot status bonus to your climb Speed. 
hit the same creature, combine their damage for the purpose * Plains You gain a +10-foot status bonus to your land Speed. THE AGE DF 
of resistances and weaknesses. Apply your multiple attack * Sky You gain a +10-foot status bonus to your fly Speed, if LOST OMENS 
penalty to each Strike normally. you have one. 

PLAYING THE 

MONSTER HUNTER FEAT 1 , p» GAME 


| RANGER | z ~ 


You swiftly assess your prey and apply what you know. ^ GAME 
As part of the action used to Hunt your Prey, you can j "y" ; awh. ASTERING 
attempt a check to Recall Knowledge about your prey. E MT 

When you critically succeed at identifying your hunted ; N Qa A CRAFTING 


prey with Recall Knowledge, you note a weakness in the 
creature's defenses. You and allies you tell gain 
a +1 circumstance bonus to your next attack 
roll against that prey. You can give bonuses 
from Monster Hunter only once per day against a 
particular creature. 


© S TREASURE 


BPENDIX 


TWIN TAKEDOWN «> FEAT 1 
Frequency once per round 

Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, 

each in a different hand. 

You swiftly attack your hunted prey with both 
weapons. Make two Strikes against your 
hunted prey, one with each of the required 
weapons. If both hit the same hunted prey, 
combine their damage for the purpose of 
its resistances and weaknesses. Apply your multiple 
attack penalty to each Strike normally. 


END LEVEL ™ 
FEAT 2 : = 


FAVORED TERRAIN = 
| RANGER | ZNN 
You have studied a specific terrain to overcome " 4 
its challenges. Choose aquatic, arctic, desert, forest, 
mountain, plains, sky, swamp, or underground as 
your favored terrain. When in that terrain, you can 
ignore the effects of non-magical difficult terrain. 


Swamp You can move across bogs at full Speed, even if 
they are deep enough to be greater difficult terrain or to 
normally require you to Swim. 


HUNTER'S AIM +> FEAT 2 


Í CONCENTRATE | RANGER | 

When you focus on aiming, your attack becomes particularly 
accurate. Make a ranged weapon Strike against your hunted 
prey. On this Strike, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the 
attack roll and ignore your prey’s concealed condition. 


MONSTER WARDEN FEAT 2 
E 

Prerequisites Monster Hunter 

You understand how to defend yourself and others against 
your prey. When you grant bonuses from Monster Hunter, 
you and your allies also each gain a *1 circumstance 
bonus to your next saving throw against that particular 
creature and to your AC against that creature's next attack 
against you. 


QUICK DRAW «> FEAT 2 


Í RANGER | 
You draw your weapon and attack with the same motion. You 
Interact to draw a weapon, then Strike with that weapon. 


WILD EMPATHY FEAT 2 
ET 

You have a connection to the creatures of the natural 
world that allows you to communicate with them on 
a rudimentary level. You can use Diplomacy to Make an 
Impression on animals and to make very simple Requests 
of them. In most cases, wild animals will give you time to 
make your case. 


4TH LEVEL 


COMPANION'S CRY FEAT 4 


ET 

Prerequisites an animal companion 

You can urge your companion to do its utmost. You can 
spend 2 actions to Command an Animal instead of 1 when 
commanding your animal companion. If you do, your animal 
companion uses an additional action. 


DISRUPT PREY 2 FEAT 4 


Í RANGER | 

Trigger Your hunted prey is within your reach, and it uses a 
manipulate action, uses a move action, or leaves a square 
during a move action it’s using. 

Make a melee Strike against your prey. If the attack is a critical 

hit, you disrupt the triggering action. 


FAR SHOT FEAT 4 


| RANGER | 
Your experience in the field has taught you how to focus 


your aim at a distance, increasing your accuracy. Double 
your weapons' range increments. 


FAVORED ENEMY FEAT 4 
| | 

You have studied a specific type of wild creature and can 
hunt it more easily. When you gain this feat, choose animals, 
beasts, dragons, or both fungi and plants as your favored 
enemy. When you roll initiative and can see an enemy that 
belongs to the chosen category, you can Hunt Prey as a free 
action, designating that enemy. 

You can use this free action even if you haven't identified 
the creature yet with Recall Knowledge. The benefit doesn't 
apply against favored enemies disguised as other creatures, 
and the GM determines whether it applies against a creature 
disguised as a favored enemy. 


RUNNING RELOAD «> FEAT 4 


You can reload your weapon on the move. You Stride, Step, or 
Sneak, then Interact to reload. 


SCOUT'S WARNING € FEAT 4 

Trigger You are about to roll a Perception or Survival check 
for initiative. 

You visually or audibly warn your allies of danger, granting 

them each a +1 circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls. 

Depending on whether you use gestures or call out, this action 

gains either the visual or the auditory trait, respectively. 


SNARE SPECIALIST FEAT 4 
Prerequisites expert in Crafting, Snare Crafting 

You specialize in creating quick traps to obstruct your enemies 
on the battlefield. If your proficiency rank in Crafting is expert, 
you gain the formulas for three common or uncommon snares 
(page 589). If your rank is master, you gain 6. If your rank is 
legendary, you gain 9. 

Each day during your daily preparations, you can prepare 
four snares from your formula book for quick deployment; if 
they normally take 1 minute to Craft, you can Craft them with 
3 Interact actions. The number of snares increases to six if 
you have master proficiency in Crafting and eight if you have 
legendary proficiency in Crafting. Snares prepared in this way 
don't cost you any resources to Craft. 


TWIN PARRY «> FEAT 4 
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, one in 
each hand. 

You can use two weapons to deflect attacks. You gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next turn, 
or a +2 circumstance bonus if either weapon has the parry 
trait. You lose this circumstance bonus if you no longer meet 
this feat’s requirement. 


6TH LEVEL 


MATURE ANIMAL COMPANION 
Prerequisites Animal Companion 
Your animal companion grows up, becoming a mature animal 
companion and gaining additional capabilities (page 214). 

If you have the Hunt Prey action, your animal companion 
assaults the prey even without your orders. During an 
encounter, even if you dont use the Command an Animal 
action, your animal companion can still use 1 action that round 
on your turn to Stride toward or Strike your prey. 


QUICK SNARES 
| RANGER | 


Prerequisites expert in Crafting, Snare Specialist 

You can rig a snare in only moments. You can Craft snares that 
normally take 1 minute to Craft with 3 Interact actions, even if 
you haven't prepared them. 


SKIRMISH STRIKE *> 
| FLOURISH |. RANGER | 


Your feet and weapon move in tandem. Either Step and then 
Strike, or Strike and then Step. 


SNAP SHOT 
| RANGER | 


You've learned to react with ranged weapons when a creature 
is in close quarters. You can use a reaction that normally allows 


FEAT6 


FEAT6 


FEAT6 


FEAT6 


—— X. 


CLASSES 


you to make a melee weapon Strike to instead make a ranged 
weapon Strike. You must be Striking an adjacent target. If 
necessary for the reaction's trigger, you treat your ranged 
weapon as if it had a reach of 5 feet. If the reaction has other 
requirements, such as wielding a specific kind of weapon, Snap 
Shot doesn't allow you to ignore them; it allows you only to 
replace a melee weapon Strike with a ranged weapon Strike. 


SWIFT TRACKER FEAT 6 
Prerequisites expert in Survival, Experienced Tracker 
Your keen eyes catch signs of passage even when you're moving. 
You can move at your full Speed while you Track. If you have 
master proficiency in Survival, you don't need to attempt a new 
Survival check every hour while Tracking. If you have legendary 
proficiency in Survival, you can use another exploration activity 
while Tracking. 

If you roll Survival for initiative while tracking your hunted 
prey, when you start your first turn of the encounter, you can 
Stride toward your hunted prey as a free action. 


8TH LEVEL 


BLIND-FIGHT FEAT 8 
Prerequisites master in Perception 

Your battle instincts make you more aware of concealed and 
invisible opponents. You don't need to succeed at a flat check to 
target concealed creatures. You're not flat-footed to creatures 


i 
i 
B 
i 


Oe 


~ INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 
FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


SAMF RANGER 


ANIMAL RANGER 


Sharing a powerful bond, you and your beloved 
animal explore the wilds and fight in tandem. 


ABILITY SCORES 
Prioritize Dexterity, followed by Constitution and 
Wisdom. Take Strength if you want to deal more damage. 


SKILLS 


Acrobatics, Athletics, Medicine, Nature, Stealth, Survival 


HUNTER'S EDGE 
Outwit 


STARTING FEAT 


Animal Companion 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 

Companions Cry (4th) Mature Animal Companion 
(6th), Incredible Companion (10th), Side by Side (12th), 
Specialized Companion (16th), Masterful Companion (18th) 


that are hidden from you (unless you're flat-footed to them for 
reasons other than the hidden condition), and you need only a 
successful DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature. 

While you're adjacent to an undetected creature of your 
level or lower, it is instead only hidden from you. 


DEADLY AIM 9 

WESS weapon specialization 
You aim for your prey's weak spots, making your shot more 
challenging but dealing more damage if you hit. Make a 
ranged Strike against your hunted prey at a -2 penalty. You 
gain a +4 circumstance bonus to damage on that Strike. This 
bonus increases to +6 at 11th level and +8 at 15th level. 


FEAT8 


HAZARD FINDER 
You have an intuitive ability to sense hazards. You gain a *1 
circumstance bonus to Perception checks to find traps and 
hazards, to AC against their attacks, and to saves against 
their effects. You can find hazards that would normally 
require you to Search even if you aren't Searching. 


POWERFUL SNARES FEAT8 
| RANGER | 
Prerequisites master in Crafting, Snare Specialist 
Your snares are particularly difficult for enemies to avoid. 
When you set a snare, the saving throw DC for that snare is 
equal to its normal DC or your class DC, whichever is higher. 


TERRAIN MASTER FEAT8 
Prerequisites master in Survival, Favored Terrain 

You adapt to your surroundings in any natural terrain. You 
can spend 1 hour practicing in your current terrain in order 
to make it your favored terrain, replacing your current 
favored terrain temporarily. If you spend a full day out 
of the new favored terrain, your favored terrain reverts 
back to your original choice when you took the Favored 
Terrain feat. 


WARDEN'S BOON *> 
By pointing out vulnerabilities, you grant the benefits listed in 
Hunt Prey and your hunter's edge benefit to an ally until the 
end of their next turn. Depending on whether you call out or 
use gestures, this action gains either the auditory or visual trait. 


10TH LEVEL 


CAMOUFLAGE FEAT 10 
Prerequisites master in Stealth 

You alter your appearance to blend in to the wilderness. In 
natural terrain, you can Hide and Sneak even without cover 
or being concealed. 


FEAT8 


FEAT8 


INCREDIBLE COMPANION FEAT 10 


DOUBLE PREY FEAT 12 


| RANGER J 

Prerequisites Mature Animal Companion 

Your animal companion continues to grow and develop. It 
becomes a nimble or savage animal companion (your choice), 
gaining additional capabilities determined by the type of 


companion (page 214). 


MASTER MONSTER HUNTER 


ETT 


ü b 


Prerequisites master in Nature, Monster Hunter 


FEAT 10 


You have a nearly encyclopedic knowledge of all creatures of 
the world. You can use Nature to Recall Knowledge to identify 
any creature. In addition, you gain the benefits of Monster 
Hunter (and Monster Warden, if you have it) on a success as 
well as a critical success. 


FEAT 10 


You shoot clear through an intervening creature to hit your 
prey. Choose a target that is giving lesser cover to your hunted 
prey. Make a single ranged Strike with the required weapon 
against the chosen target and your hunted prey. This attack 
ignores any lesser cover the chosen target provides your 
hunted prey. Roll damage only once, and apply it to each 
creature you hit. A Penetrating Shot counts as two attacks for 
your multiple attack penalty. 


TWIN RIPOSTE > 

Trigger A creature within your reach critically fails a Strike 
against you. 

Requirements You are benefiting from Twin Parry 

A clever parry with one weapon leaves your opponent open to 

an attack with the other weapon. Make a melee Strike or use a 

Disarm action against the triggering opponent. 


FEAT 10 


You can focus on two foes at once, hunting both of them down. 
When you use the Hunt Prey action, you can pick two creatures 
as your prey. 


LIGHTNING SNARES 


| RANGER | 

Prerequisites master in Crafting, Quick Snares, Snare Specialist 
You can rig a trap with incredible speed. When you create a 
snare that normally takes 1 minute to Craft, you can Craft it 
using a single Interact action instead. 


SECOND STING *> 

| PRESS | RANGER | 

Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a 
different hand. 

You read your prey's movements and transform them into 

openings, so failures with one weapon set up glancing blows 

with the other. Make a melee Strike with one of the required 
weapons against your hunted prey. The Strike gains the 
following failure effect. 

Failure You deal the damage the other required weapon would 
have dealt on a hit, excluding all damage dice. (This removes 
dice from weapon runes, spells, and special abilities, not 
just weapon damage dice.) 


SIDE BY SIDE 


| RANGER | 

Prerequisites an animal companion 

You and your animal companion fight in tandem, distracting 
your foes and keeping them off balance. Whenever you and 
your animal companion are adjacent to the same foe, you are 
both flanking that foe with each other, regardless of your 
actual positions. 


14TH LEVEL 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


WARDEN'S STEP FEAT10 SENSE THE UNSEEN > FEAT 14 
| RANGER | 


Prerequisites master in Stealth 


Trigger You fail a check to Seek. 


You can guide your allies to move quietly through the 
wilderness. When you Avoid Notice during exploration in 
natural terrain, you can designate any number of your allies 
to gain the benefits as if they were using that activity during 
that exploration. This requires no action on their part. 


[3588338 


DISTRACTING SHOT FEAT 12 
The sheer power of your attacks, or the overwhelming number 
of them, leaves an enemy flustered. If you critically hit your 
hunted prey with a ranged weapon, or hit it at least twice on 
the same turn with a ranged weapon, it's flat-footed until the 
start of your next turn. 


When you look for foes, you can catch even the slightest 
cues, such as their minute movements or the shifting of 
air currents on your skin. Even though you failed at the 
triggering check, you automatically sense any undetected 
creatures in the area where you're Seeking, making them 
merely hidden to you. 


SHARED PREY FEAT 14 


Prerequisites Double Prey, Warden's Boon 

Hunting as a duo, you and your ally both single out your prey. 
When you use Hunt Prey and select only one prey, you can 
grant your Hunt Prey benefits and hunters edge to an ally 
in addition to gaining them yourself. The ally retains these 
benefits until you use Hunt Prey again. 


EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 
t 
I 
HE ABE OF 
LOST OMENS 


E 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


al 


- GAME 


d 


*] 


& TREASURE 


SAMPLE RANGER 


—~ — FF ~~ ~ — S 


ARCHER 


You keep your distance from your prey, shooting 
arrows with incredible precision to hinder or kill 


those you hunt. 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Dexterity, then Wisdom. Choose Strength if 
you want to use a composite bow or thrown weapon, or 
Intelligence to be more skilled. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Athletics, Nature, Stealth, Survival, Thievery 


HUNTER'S EDGE 
Flurry 


STARTING FEAT 
Hunted Shot 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 

Quick Draw (2nd), Far Shot (Ath), Skirmish Strike (6th), 
Deadly Aim (8th), Penetrating Shot (10th), Distracting 
Shot (12th), Impossible Volley (18th) 


STEALTHY COMPANION FEAT 14 


Prerequisites Animal Companion, Camouflage 

You've trained your animal companion to blend in to its 

surroundings. Your animal companion gains the benefit of the 

Camouflage feat. If your companion is a specialized ambusher, 
its proficiency rank for Stealth increases to master (or 


AS legendary if it was already master). 


TARGETING SHOT «> FEAT 14 


| CONCENTRATE | PRESS | RANGER | 

Prerequisites Hunters Aim 

You carefully track your prey's position and defenses, allowing 
you to follow up around obstacles that block your shot. 
Make a ranged weapon Strike against your hunted prey. You 
ignore the target's concealed condition and all cover. 


WARDEN'S GUIDANCE 
You can convey your prey's location to your allies, no matter 
how well hidden it is. As long as your hunted prey is observed 
by you, all your allies who roll failures and critical failures 
when Seeking it get a success instead. Your allies need to be 
able to see or hear you to gain this benefit. You have to be able 
to call out or use gestures for your allies to get this benefit. 


IBTH LEVEL 


GREATER DISTRACTING SHOT FEAT 16 
Prerequisites Distracting Shot 

Even a single missile can throw off your enemy's balance, and 
more powerful attacks leave it flustered for longer. If you hit 
your hunted prey with a ranged weapon, it's flat-footed until 
the start of your next turn. If you critically hit your prey or hit 
it twice on the same turn with a ranged weapon, it's flat-footed 
until the end of your next turn instead. 


IMPROVED TWIN RIPOSTE 
At the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional 
reaction that you can use only to perform a Twin Riposte 
against your hunted prey. You can use this extra reaction even 
if you are not benefiting from Twin Parry. 


LEGENDARY MONSTER HUNTER 
| RANGER | 


Prerequisites legendary in Nature, Master Monster Hunter 
Your knowledge of monsters is so incredible that it reveals 
glaring flaws in your prey. Your bonus from Monster Hunter 
(and the bonus from Monster Warden if you have it) increases 
from +1 to +2 for you and any allies who benefit. 


SPECIALIZED COMPANION 
| RANGER | 


Prerequisites Incredible Companion 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 16 


FEAT 16 


FEAT 16 


Your animal companion has become cunning enough to become 
specialized. Your animal companion gains one specialization of 
your choice. (See the Animal Companion section on page 214.) 


UBIQUITOUS SNARES FEAT 16 


Prerequisites Snare Specialist 

You can prepare a seemingly impossible number of snares in 
advance, and you're ready to spring them on unsuspecting foes. 
Double the number of prepared snares from Snare Specialist. 


18TH LEVEL 


IMPOSSIBLE FLURRY 93? FEAT 18 


different hand. 


You forgo precision to attack at an impossible speed. Make 
three melee Strikes with each of the required weapons. All of 
these Strikes take the maximum multiple attack penalty, as if 
you had already made two or more attacks this turn. 


IMPOSSIBLE VOLLEY ‘99> 


FLOURISH | OPEN | RANGER | 
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with the 
volley trait and reload 0. 
You fire a volley at all foes in an area. Make one Strike with a 
-2 penalty against each enemy within a 10-foot-radius burst 
centered at or beyond your weapons volley range. Roll the 
damage only once for all targets. 
Each attack counts toward your multiple attack penalty, 
but do not increase your penalty until you have made all 
your attacks. 


MANIFOLD EDGE 

Prerequisites hunter's edge, masterful hunter 
You've learned every possible edge to use against your foes. 
When you use Hunt Prey, you can gain a different hunter’s 
edge benefit instead of the one you selected at 1st level. If you 
do, you don't gain the additional benefit from masterful hunter. 


MASTERFUL COMPANION FEAT 18 
Prerequisites masterful hunter, Animal Companion 

Your animal companion shares your incredible hunting skills, 
allowing it to take down your shared prey with ease. When 
you Hunt Prey, your animal companion gains the masterful 
hunter benefit associated with your hunter's edge, rather than 
just your original hunter's edge benefit. 


FEAT 18 


FEAT 18 


FEAT 18 


reload 1 or more, and you have not reloaded your weapon 
since your last turn. 


After watching the motions of combat with incredible intensity 
and precision, you fire at your prey at the perfect moment to 
deliver maximum pain. Make a ranged Strike with the required 
weapon against your hunted prey. If you hit, the Strike deals 
maximum damage. After the Strike, your turn ends. 


SHADOW HUNTER 


ET 

Prerequisites Camouflage 

You blend in to your surroundings so well that others have 
trouble telling you apart from the terrain. While in natural 
terrain, you're always concealed from all foes if you choose to 
be, except for your hunted prey. 


GOTH LEVEL 


LEGENDARY SHOT FEAT 20 


FEAT 18 


Prerequisites masterful hunter, legendary in Perception, Far Shot 
You focus on your hunted prey, perceiving angles, air 
resistance, and every variable that would affect your ranged 
attack. If you have master proficiency with your ranged 
weapon, you can ignore the penalty for attacking up to five 
range increments away when attacking your hunted prey. 


TO THE ENDS OF THE EARTH FEAT 20 


Prerequisites legendary in Survival 

Your ability to track your prey has surpassed explanation, 
allowing you to trace your preys movements and predict its 
location with ease. When you use Hunt Prey on a creature 
within 100 feet, you can follow that creatures movements, 
allowing you to know the creature's exact location no matter 
how far away it becomes, as long as it remains your prey. You 
must be legendary in Nature to track your prey's location across 
teleportation or planar travel. This feat gains the detection, 
divination, and primal traits if you're legendary in Nature. 


TRIPLE THREAT FEAT 20 


| RANGER | 

Prerequisites Shared Prey 

You can divide your attention three ways when hunting. When 
you use Hunt Prey, you can designate three creatures as prey, 
designate two creatures as prey and share the effect with one 
ally (as Shared Prey), or designate one creature as prey and 
share the effect with two allies. 


ULTIMATE SKIRMISHER 


ET 

Prerequisites wild stride 

You are so skilled at navigating the wild, your movement is 
completely unaffected by terrain. You ignore the effects of 
all difficult terrain, greater difficult terrain, and hazardous 
terrain, and you dont trigger traps and hazards that are 
triggered by moving into an area (such as trip wires and 
pressure plates), unless you want to. 


FEAT 20 


LASSES 


QUIPMENT 


‘SPELLS 
SR 


m y 
- THE ABE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
. BAME 


| B TREASURE 


ADD " 
APPEND 


LA 
A 


os 
7 | PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 7 


You are skilled and opportunistic. Using your sharp wits and quick reactions, 

you take advantage of your opponents’ missteps and strike where it hurts 
"mu most. You play a dangerous game, seeking thrills and testing your skills, and 
likely don’t care much for any laws that happen to get in your way. While the path of 
every rogue is unique and riddled with danger, the one thing you all share in common is 


the breadth and depth of your skills. 


KEY ABILITY HIT POINTS INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 
At 1st level, you gain the 
DEXTERITY OR OTHER 8 plus your Constitution modifier listed proficiency ranks in 
At ist level, your class gives you You increase your maximum number of the following statistics. You 
an ability boost to Dexterity or HP by this number at 1st level and every are untrained in anything 
an option from rogue' racket. level thereafter. not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some "LOST OMENS 
other way. , 
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... PERCEPTION .. PLAYING THE 
You move about stealthily so you can catch foes unawares. You’re a precision Expert in Perception GAME 
instrument, more useful against a tough boss or distant spellcaster than against r 
rank-and-file soldiers. SAVING THROWS 
Trained in Fortitude 
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... Expert in Reflex 
Your skills give you multiple tools to influence your opposition. Pulling cons and | Expert in Will 
ferreting out information are second nature to you. SKILLS 
WHILE EXPLORING... Trained in Stealth 


Trained in one or more skills 


You sneak to get the drop on foes and scout for danger or traps. You’re a great asset, S > 
determined by your rogue's 


since you can disable traps, solve puzzles, and anticipate dangers. 


racket 
Trained in a number of 
IN DOWNTIME... additional skills equal to 
You might pick pockets or trade in illegal goods. You can also become part of a 7 plus your Intelligence 
thieves’ guild, or even found one of your own. modifier 
YOU MIGHT... ATTACKS 
* Hone your skills through intense practice, both on your own and out in the world. | Trained in simple weapons 


Trained in the rapier, sap, 
shortbow, and shortsword 
Trained in unarmed attacks 


OTHERS PROBABLY... DEFENSES 


* Find you charming or fascinating, even if they think they know better than to 


* Know where to attain illicit goods. 
* Skirt or break the law because you think it's meaningless or have your own code. 


Trained in light armor 


trust you. RENE. Trained in unarmored defense 
* Come to you when they need someone who is willing to take risks or use 
questionable methods. CLASS DC 


* Suspect you're motivated primarily by greed. Trained in rogue class DC 


SAAT 


p THFiI CORE RULEBOOK j 
FS a a a el 


TABLE 3-15: ROGUE ADVANCEMENT 


Your 


Class Features 


Level 

1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, 
rogue's racket, sneak attack 1d6, surprise attack, 
rogue feat, skill feat 


2 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 

3 Deny advantage, general feat, skill feat, skill increase 

4 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 

5 Ability boosts, ancestry feat, skill feat, skill 
increase, sneak attack 2d6, weapon tricks 

6 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 

7 Evasion, general feat, skill feat, skill increase, 
vigilant senses, weapon specialization 

8 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 

9 Ancestry feat, debilitating strike, great fortitude, 
skill feat, skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 

11 General feat, rogue expertise, skill feat, skill 
increase, sneak attack 3d6 

12 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 

13 Ancestry feat, improved evasion, incredible senses, 
light armor expertise, master tricks, skill feat, 
skill increase 

14 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 

15 Ability boosts, double debilitation, general feat, 
greater weapon specialization, skill feat, skill increase 

16 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 

17 Ancestry feat, skill feat, skill increase, slippery 
mind, sneak attack 4d6 

18 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 

19 General feat, light armor mastery, master strike, 
skill feat, skill increase 

20 Ability boosts, rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase 


CLASS FEATURES 

You gain these abilities as a rogue. Abilities gained at 
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to 
the features' names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, 
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that 
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are 
noted at the start of this class. 


ROGUE'S RACKET 


As you started on the path of the rogue, you began to 
develop your own style to pursue your illicit activities. 
Your racket shapes your rogue techniques and the way 
you approach a job, while building your reputation in the 


criminal underworld for a certain type of work. A client 
with deep pockets might even hire a team of rogues for a 
particular heist, each specializing in a different racket, in 
order to cover all the bases. Choose a rogue’s racket. The 
rackets presented in this book are as follows. 


RUFFIAN 

You prefer to strong-arm or intimidate others rather than 
rely on finesse or fancy tricks. You might be an enforcer for 
organized crime, a highway bandit, or a noble who bullies 
others with threats of your family’s power. Or, you might 
use your skills on the up and up, in a private security detail 
or as a guard in a city with the right temperament. 

You use whatever tools you have at hand to get the job 
done. You can deal sneak attack damage with any simple 
weapon, in addition to the weapons listed in the sneak 
attack class feature. When you critically succeed at an 
attack roll using a simple weapon and the target has the 
flat-footed condition (unable to focus on defending itself), 
you also apply the critical specialization effect for the 
weapon you're wielding (page 283). You don't gain these 
benefits if the weapon has a damage die larger than d8 
(after applying any abilities that alter its damage die size). 

Yov're trained in Intimidation and medium armor. You 
can choose Strength as your key ability score. When you 
gain light armor expertise, you also gain expert proficiency 
in medium armor, and when you gain light armor mastery, 
you also gain master proficiency in medium armor. 


SCOUNDREL 

You use fast-talking, flattery, and a silver tongue to avoid 
danger and escape tricky situations. You might be a grifter 
or con artist, traveling from place to place with a new story 
or scheme. Your racket is also ideal for certain reputable 
professions, like barrister, diplomat, or politician. 

When you successfully Feint (page 246), the target is 
flat-footed against melee attacks you attempt against it 
until the end of your next turn. On a critical success, the 
target is flat-footed against all melee attacks until the end 
of your next turn, not just yours. 

You’re trained in Deception and Diplomacy. You can 
choose Charisma as your key ability score. 


THIEF 
Nothing beats the thrill of taking something that belongs 
to someone else, especially if you can do so completely 
unnoticed. You might be a pickpocket working the streets, 
a cat burglar sneaking through windows and escaping via 
rooftops, or a safecracker breaking into carefully guarded 
vaults. You might even work as a consultant, testing 
clients’ defenses by trying to steal something precious. 
When a fight breaks out, you prefer swift, lightweight 
weapons, and you strike where it hurts. When you attack 
with a finesse melee weapon, you can add your Dexterity 
modifier to damage rolls instead of your Strength modifier. 
You are trained in Thievery. 


SNEAK ATTACK 


When your enemy can’t properly defend itself, you take 
advantage to deal extra damage. If you Strike a creature 
that has the flat-footed condition (page 620) with an agile 
or finesse melee weapon, an agile or finesse unarmed 
attack, a ranged weapon attack, or a ranged unarmed 
attack, you deal an extra 1d6 precision damage. For a 
ranged attack with a thrown melee weapon, that weapon 
must also be agile or finesse. 

As your rogue level increases, so does the number of 
damage dice for your sneak attack. Increase the number 
of dice by one at 5th, 11th, and 17th levels. 


SURPRISE ATTACK 


You spring into combat faster than foes can react. On the 
first round of combat, if you roll Deception or Stealth for 
initiative, creatures that haven't acted are flat-footed to you. 


ROGUE FEATS 


At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a 
rogue class feat. These begin on page 183. 


SKILL FEATS 


You gain skill feats more often than others. At 1st level 
and every level thereafter, you gain a skill feat. Skill feats 
can be found in Chapter 5 and have the skill trait. 


SKILL INCREASES END 


You gain more skill increases than members of other 
classes. At 2nd level and every level thereafter, you gain a 
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become 
trained in one skill you’re untrained in, or to become an 
expert in one skill in which you’re already trained. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a 
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and 
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a 
skill in which you’re already a master. 


DENY ADVANTAGE 3RD 


As someone who takes advantage of others’ defenses, 
you are careful not to leave such openings yourself. 
You aren’t flat-footed to hidden, undetected, or flanking 
creatures of your level or lower, or creatures of your level 
or lower using surprise attack. However, they can still 
help their allies flank. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 
if it starts out below 18. 


KEY TERMS 
You'll see the following key terms in many rogue 
class features. 

Debilitation: Debilitations apply conditions and other 
negative effects to a creature. When the creature is 
affected by a new debilitation, any previous one it was 
affected by ends. 

Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques 
that require too much exertion for you to perform 
frequently. You can use only 1 action with the flourish 
trait per turn. 


CLASSES 


EQUIPMENT 


wile 


SPELLS 
tt 


P S [^ 
. THE ABE DF 
LOST OMENS 


i me vno = d ie 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 3 
a os ne SEDE e] 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the initial ancestry feat you started with, 
you gain an ancestry feat at Sth level and every 4 levels 
thereafter. The list of ancestry feats available to you can 
be found in your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2. 


WEAPON TRICKS STH 


You have become thoroughly familiar with the tools of your 
trade. You gain expert proficiency in simple weapons as 
well as the rapier, sap, shortbow, shortsword, and unarmed 
attacks. When you critically succeed at an attack roll against 
a flat-footed creature while using an agile or finesse simple 
weapon or unarmed attack, or when using any of the listed 
weapons, you apply the critical specialization effect for that 
weapon or unarmed attack. 


EVASION 7TH 


You've learned to move quickly to avoid explosions, 
dragons’ breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for 
Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success 
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead. 


VIGILANT SENSES 7TH 


You’ve developed keen awareness and attention to detail. 
Your proficiency rank for Perception increases to master. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH 


You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the 
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an 
expert. This damage increases to 3 damage if you’re a 
master, and 4 damage if you’re legendary. 


DEBILITATING STRIKE STH 


When taking advantage of an opening, you both hinder and 
harm your foe. You gain the Debilitating Strike free action. 


DEBILITATING STRIKE € 


Trigger Your Strike hits a flat-footed creature and deals damage. 
You apply one of the following debilitations, which lasts until 
the end of your next turn. 
* Debilitation The target takes a -10-foot status penalty 
to its Speeds. 
* Debilitation The target becomes enfeebled 1. 


GREAT FORTITUDE gTH 
Your physique is incredibly hardy. Your proficiency rank 


for Fortitude saves increases to expert. 


ROGUE EXPERTISE ITH 


Your techniques are now harder to resist. Your proficiency 
rank for your rogue class DC increases to expert. 


IMPROVED EVASION 13TH 


You elude danger to a degree that few can match. 


Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to legendary. 
When you roll a critical failure on a Reflex save, you get 
a failure instead. When you roll a failure on a Reflex save 
against a damaging effect, you take half damage. 


INCREDIBLE SENSES 13TH 


You notice things almost impossible for an ordinary 
person to detect. Your proficiency rank for Perception 
increases to legendary. 


LIGHT ARMOR EXPERTISE 13TH 


You've learned how to dodge while wearing light or 
no armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and 
unarmored defense increase to expert. 


MASTER TRICKS 13TH 


You’ve mastered a rogue’s fighting moves. Your proficiency 
ranks increase to master for all simple weapons plus the 
rapier, sap, shortbow, shortsword, and unarmed attacks. 


DOUBLE DEBILITATION ISTH 


Your opportunistic attacks are particularly detrimental. 
When you use Debilitating Strike, you can apply two 
debilitations simultaneously; removing one removes both. 


GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION ISTH 


Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an 
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary. 


SLIPPERY MIND 17TH 


You play mental games and employ cognitive tricks to 
throw off mind-altering effects. Your proficiency rank for 
Will saves increases to master. When you roll a success at 
a Will save, you get a critical success instead. 


LIGHT ARMOR MASTERY 19TH 


Your skill with light armor improves, increasing your 
ability to dodge blows. Your proficiency ranks for light 
armor and unarmored defense increase to master. 


MASTER STRIKE 19TH 


You can incapacitate an unwary foe with a single strike. 
Your proficiency rank for your rogue class DC increases 
to master. You gain the Master Strike free action. 


MASTER STRIKE® 

Trigger Your Strike hits a flat-footed creature and deals damage. 

The target attempts a Fortitude save at your class DC. It then 

becomes temporarily immune to your Master Strike for 1 day. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is enfeebled 2 until the end of your next turn. 

Failure The target is paralyzed for 4 rounds. 

Critical Failure The target is paralyzed for 4 rounds, knocked 
unconscious for 2 hours, or killed (your choice). 


ROGUE FEATS 


At every level that you gain a rogue feat, you can select one of the following feats. 
You must satisfy any prerequisites before selecting the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


NIMBLE DODGE 2 FEAT 1 
Trigger A creature targets you with an attack and you can see the attacker. 

Requirements You are not encumbered. 

You deftly dodge out of the way, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to AC against the 
triggering attack. 


TRAP FINDER 


FEAT 1 


You have an intuitive sense that alerts you to the dangers and presence of traps. You gain 
a +1 circumstance bonus to Perception checks to find traps, to AC against attacks made by 
traps, and to saves against traps. Even if you aren't Searching, you get a check to find traps 
that normally require you to be Searching. You still need to meet any other requirements 
to find the trap. 

You can disable traps that require a proficiency rank of master in Thievery. If you have 
master proficiency in Thievery, you can disable traps that require a proficiency rank of 
legendary instead, and your circumstance bonuses against traps increase to +2. 


TWIN FEINT 99 

Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a different hand. 
You make a dazzling series of attacks with both weapons, using the first attack to 
throw your foe off guard against a second attack at a different angle. Make one Strike 
with each of your two melee weapons, both against the same target. The target is 
automatically flat-footed against the second attack. Apply your multiple attack penalty 
to the Strikes normally. 


YOU'RE NEXT 2 


FEAT1 


FEAT 1 


| eMoTION | FEAR | MENTAL | ROGUE | 
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation 
Trigger You reduce an enemy to O Hit Points. 


After downing a foe, you menacingly remind another foe that you're coming after them 
next. Attempt an Intimidation check with a +2 circumstance bonus to Demoralize a single 
creature that you can see and that can see you. If you have legendary proficiency in 
Intimidation, you can use this as a free action with the same trigger. 


2ND LEVEL 


BRUTAL BEATING FEAT 2 


ETE 
Prerequisites ruffian racket 
The brutality of your critical hits shakes your foes' confidence. Whenever your Strike is a 


critical hit and deals damage, the target is frightened 1. 


DISTRACTING FEINT 
| rocue f 

Prerequisites scoundrel racket 

Your Feints are far more distracting than normal, drawing your foes’ attention and allowing 
you and your allies to take greater advantage. While a creature is flat-footed by your Feint, 


it also takes a -2 circumstance penalty to Perception checks and Reflex saves. 


FEAT 2 


ROGUE FEATS 


Use this table to look up rogue 


feats by name. 


Feat 

Battle Assessment 
Blank Slate 
Blind-Fight 

Brutal Beating 
Cloud Step 
Cognitive Loophole 
Critical Debilitation 
Defensive Roll 
Delay Trap 
Dispelling Slice 
Distracting Feint 
Dread Striker 
Fantastic Leap 
Felling Shot 

Gang Up 

Hidden Paragon 
Implausible Infiltration 
Impossible Striker 
Improved Poison Weapon 
Instant Opening 
Leave an Opening 
Light Step 

Magical Trickster 
Minor Magic 
Mobility 

Nimble Dodge 
Nimble Roll 
Opportune Backstab 
Perfect Distraction 
Poison Weapon 
Powerful Sneak 
Precise Debilitations 
Quick Draw 
Reactive Distraction 
Reactive Interference 
Reactive Pursuit 
Sabotage 

Scout’s Warning 
Sense the Unseen 
Sidestep 

Skirmish Strike 

Sly Striker 

Sneak Savant 
Spring from the Shadows 
Tactical Debilitations 
Trap Finder 
Trickster's Ace 

Twin Feint 

Twist the Knife 
Unbalancing Blow 
Vicious Debilitations 
You're Next 


Level 
4 
16 


cuu 
KRO@O@MO i wONM KD 


= pS) — Nec 
RBRNM ONO OO 


EQUIPMENT 
m 
SPELLS 
f 


E 


s aM" 
. THE AGE DF 
LosT OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


AFTING 
B TREASURE 


SAMPLE ROGUE 


— —N az — — —— 


SCOUNDREL 


Your attacks are made deadly through distraction. 


—— y — 
ABILITY SCORES 


Prioritize Dexterity, plus Charisma to improve your feints. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Athletics, Crafting, Deception, Diplomacy, 
Intimidation, Occultism, Society, Stealth, Thievery 


ROGUE'S RACKET 


Scoundrel 


STARTING FEAT 


You're Next 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Distracting Feint (2nd), Dread Striker (Ath), Tactical 
Debilitations (10th), Perfect Distraction (16th) 


MINOR MAGIC FEAT 2 


You've dabbled in minor magical abilities. Choose arcane, divine, 
occult, or primal magic, and gain two cantrips from the common 
cantrips available to that tradition. You gain the Cast a Spell 
activity, your key spellcasting ability is Charisma, and you're 
trained in spell attack rolls and DCs for the tradition you chose. 


MOBILITY FEAT 2 
You move in a way that denies your enemies the opportunity 
to retaliate. When you take a Stride action to move half your 
Speed or less, that movement does not trigger reactions. You 
can use Mobility when Climbing, Flying, or Swimming instead 
of Striding if you have the corresponding movement type. 


QUICK DRAW «> FEAT 2 
| ROGUE | 


You draw your weapon and attack with the same motion. You 
Interact to draw a weapon, then Strike with that weapon. 


UNBALANCING BLOW FEAT2 
| ROGUE | 

Prerequisites thief racket 

Interweaving attacks in a graceful flow, you unbalance your foes. 
Whenever your Strike is a critical hit and deals damage, the target 
is flat-footed against your attacks until the end of your next turn. 


4TH LEVEL 


BATTLE ASSESSMENT *> FEAT 4 
| ROGUE 
With careful observation during battle, you identify an 
enemy's strengths and weaknesses. The GM rolls a secret 
Perception check for you against the Deception or Stealth DC 
(whichever is higher) of an enemy of your choice who is not 
concealed from you, hidden from you, or undetected by you, 
and who is engaged in combat. The GM might apply a penalty 
for the distance between you and the enemy. The enemy is 
then temporarily immune to your Battle Assessment for 1 day. 
Critical Success The GM chooses two of the following pieces 
of information about the enemy to tell you: which of the 
enemy's weaknesses is highest, which of the enemy's 
saving throws has the lowest modifier, one immunity the 
enemy has, or which of the enemy's resistances is highest. 
If the event of a tie, the GM should pick one at random. 
Success The GM chooses one piece of information from the 
above list to tell you about the enemy. 
Critical Failure The GM gives you false information (the GM 
makes up the information). 


DREAD STRIKER FEAT 4 
| ROGUE | 


You capitalize on your enemies' fear to slip past their defenses. 
Any creature that has the frightened condition is also 
flat-footed against your attacks. 


MAGICAL TRICKSTER FEAT 4 
Whether you're using magic items, wielding innate magic, 
or dabbling in spellcasting, you can sneak spells past your 
foes' defenses as easily as any blade. When you succeed at 
a spell attack roll against a flat-footed foe's AC and the spell 
deals damage, you can add your sneak attack damage to the 
damage roll. If your single spell leads to multiple separate 
damage rolls, apply your sneak attack damage only once 
per target. 


POISON WEAPON +> 
Requirements You are wielding a piercing or slashing weapon. 
You apply a poison to the required weapon; if you have a free 
hand, you can Interact to draw a poison as part of this action. If 
your next attack with that weapon before the end of your next 
turn hits and deals damage, it applies the effects of the poison, 
provided that poison can be delivered by contact or injury. If 
you critically fail the attack roll, the poison is wasted as normal. 
Special During your daily preparations, you can prepare a 
number of simple injury poisons equal to your rogue level. These 
poisons deal 1d4 poison damage. Only you can apply these 
poisons properly, and they expire the next time you prepare. 


FEAT 4 


REACTIVE PURSUIT 2 FEAT 4 
Trigger An adjacent foe moves away from you, and you can reach 
at least one space adjacent to the foe with a Stride action. 

You keep pace with a retreating foe. You Stride, but you must 
end your movement adjacent to the triggering enemy. Your 
move does not trigger reactions from the triggering enemy. You 
can use Reactive Pursuit to Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim instead 
of Stride if you have the corresponding movement type. 


SABOTAGE *> FEAT 4 

Requirements You have a free hand. 

You subtly damage others’ equipment. Choose one item that a 

creature within your reach wields or carries. The item must have 

moving parts that you could possibly sabotage (a shortbow 

could be sabotaged, but a longsword could not). Attempt a 

Thievery check against the Reflex DC of the creature. Damage 

dealt by Sabotage can't take the item below its Break Threshold. 

Critical Success You deal damage equal to four times your 
Thievery proficiency bonus. 

Success You deal damage equal to double your Thievery 
proficiency bonus. 

Critical Failure Temporarily immune to your Sabotage for 1 day. 


CLASSES 


PATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


SAMPLE ROGUE 


— — —F ---— —— 


THIEF 


Furtive and swift, you pick locks, find secret doors 
and traps, and collect all the best loot. 


ABILITYSCORES — 


Prioritize Dexterity. Constitution improves your health and 
Wisdom helps you notice traps. 


SKILLS 
Acrobatics, Arcana, Athletics, Crafting, Deception, 
Diplomacy, Society, Stealth, Thievery 


ROGUE'S RACKET 
Thief 


STARTING FEAT 
Trap Finder 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Quick Draw (2nd), Skirmish Strike (6th), Sneak Savant (10th), 
Spring from the Shadows (12th), Implausible Infiltration (18th) 


SCOUT'S WARNING € FEAT 4 

Trigger You are about to roll a Perception or Survival check 
for initiative. 

You visually or audibly warn your allies of danger, granting 

them each a +1 circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls. 

Depending on whether you use gestures or call out, this action 

gains either the visual or auditory trait, respectively. 


6TH LEVEL 


GANG UP FEAT6 


You and your allies harry an opponent in concert. Any enemy is 
flat-footed against your melee attacks due to flanking as long as 
the enemy is within both your reach and your ally's. Your allies 
must still flank an enemy for it to be flat-footed to them. 


LIGHT STEP FEAT6 


You aren't bothered by tricky footing. When you Stride or Step, 
you can ignore difficult terrain. 


SKIRMISH STRIKE *> FEAT 6 
| ROGUE | 

Your feet and weapon move in tandem. Either Step and then 
Strike, or Strike and then Step. 


TWIST THE KNIFE “> FEAT 6 

Requirements Your last action was a melee Strike that dealt 
sneak attack damage to a flat-footed target. 

After stabbing your opponent in a weak spot, you tear the 

wound open. You deal persistent bleed damage to the target 

equal to your number of sneak attack damage dice. 


8TH LEVEL 


BLIND-FIGHT FEAT 8 
Prerequisites master in Perception 
Your battle instincts make you more aware of concealed and 
invisible opponents. You don't need to succeed at a flat check to 
target concealed creatures. You're not flat-footed to creatures 
that are hidden from you (unless you're flat-footed to them for 
reasons other than the hidden condition), and you need only a 
successful DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature. 

While you're adjacent to an undetected creature of your 
level or lower, it is instead only hidden from you. 


DELAY TRAP > FEAT 8 
| ROGUE 

Trigger A trap within your reach is triggered. 

You can jam the workings of a trap to delay its effects. Attempt 
a Thievery check to Disable a Device on the trap; the DC to do 
so is increased by 5, and the effects are as follows. 


Critical Success You prevent the trap from being triggered, or 
you delay the activation until the start or end of your next 
turn (your choice). 

Success You prevent the trap from being triggered, or 
you delay the activation until the end of your next turn 
(whichever is worse for you; GM's choice). 

Failure No effect. 

Critical Failure You're flat-footed until the start of your next turn. 


IMPROVED POISON WEAPON FEAT 8 
Prerequisites Poison Weapon 

You deliver poisons in ways that maximize their harmful 
effects. When you apply a simple poison with Poison Weapon, 
the poison deals 2d4 poison damage instead of 1d4 poison 
damage. You don't waste a poison you apply with Poison 
Weapon on a critically failed attack roll. 


NIMBLE ROLL 
| rocue | 
Prerequisites Nimble Dodge 
You throw yourself into a roll to escape imminent danger. 
You can use Nimble Dodge before attempting a Reflex save 
in addition to its original trigger. If you do, the circumstance 
bonus applies to your Reflex save against the triggering effect. 
When you use Nimble Dodge and the triggering attack fails 
or critically fails, or when you succeed or critically succeed 
at the saving throw, you can also Stride up to 10 feet as part 
of the reaction. If you do, the reaction gains the move trait. 
You can use Nimble Roll while Flying or Swimming instead of 
Striding if you have the corresponding movement type. 


OPPORTUNE BACKSTAB 2 FEAT 8 

| rocue | 

Trigger A creature within your melee reach is hit by a melee 
attack from one of your allies. 

When your enemy is hit by your ally, you capitalize upon the 

distraction. Make a Strike against the triggering creature. 


SIDESTEP > FEAT 8 
Eta 

Trigger The attack roll for a Strike targeting you fails or 

critically fails. 

You deftly step out of the way of an attack, letting the blow 
continue to the creature next to you. You redirect the attack to 
a creature of your choice that is adjacent to you and within the 
reach of the triggering attack. The attacker rerolls the Strike's 
attack roll against the new target. 


SLY STRIKER 

| rocue | 

Prerequisites sneak attack 
Your attacks deal more damage, even against creatures that 
aren't flat-footed. When you succeed or critically succeed at a 
Strike against a creature that isn't flat-footed, you also deal 1d6 
precision damage. This applies only if you're using a weapon or 


FEAT8 


FEAT8 


unarmed attack you could deal sneak attack damage with. At 
14th level, if you would normally deal 3d6 or more sneak attack 
damage to flat-footed creatures, you deal 2d6 precision damage 
to creatures that arent flat-footed. 


10TH LEVEL 


PRECISE DEBILITATIONS FEAT 10 
| rocue | 
Prerequisites thief racket, Debilitating Strike 
You carefully aim and gracefully deliver your debilitations. 
Add the following debilitations to the list you can choose from 
when you use Debilitating Strike. 

* Debilitation The target takes an additional 2d6 

precision damage from your attacks. 
* Debilitation The target becomes flat-footed. 


SNEAK SAVANT 

ETA 

Prerequisite master in Stealth 
It is almost impossible to spot you without taking effort to 
look. When you roll a failure on a Sneak action, you get a 
success instead. You can still critically fail. 


TACTICAL DEBILITATIONS 
Prerequisites scoundrel racket, Debilitating Strike 
You learn new debilitations that grant you tactical advantages 
against your foes. Add the following debilitations to the list 
you can choose from when you use Debilitating Strike. 

* Debilitation The target can't use reactions. 

* Debilitation The target cant flank or contribute to allies’ 

flanking. 


VICIOUS DEBILITATIONS 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 10 


Prerequisites ruffian racket, Debilitating Strike 
The debilitations you dish out seriously impair your foes. Add 
the following debilitations to the list you can choose from 
when you use Debilitating Strike. 
* Debilitation The target gains weakness 5 to your 
choice of bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage. 
* Debilitation The target becomes clumsy 1. 


12TH LEVEL 


FEAT 12 


Your debilitations are especially effective on your most 
powerful attacks. Whenever you critically succeed at an 
attack roll against an enemy and use Debilitating Strike, add 
the following debilitation to the list you can choose from. 
* Debilitation The target attempts a Fortitude save 
against your class DC with the following effects. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected. 


| CLASSES 


EQUIPMENT 
Ec 

; ‘SPELLS 
Em 

- THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


B TREASURE 


E RULEBOOK ¢ 


necem SD namni 


A ag a ra rE » zd 


Success The target is slowed 1 until the end of your next turn. 

Failure The target is slowed 2 until the end of your next turn. 

Critical Failure The target is paralyzed until the end of your 
next turn. 


FANTASTIC LEAP 9 
| rocue | 
You launch yourself through the air at a foe. Attempt a High 
Jump or Long Jump. If you attempt a High Jump, determine the 
distance you can travel using the scale of a Long Jump. At the 
end of your jump, you can make a melee Strike. 

After your Strike, you fall to the ground if you're in the air. 
If the distance of your fall is no more than the height of your 
jump, you take no damage and land upright. 


FELLING SHOT 99 

| ROGUE | 

Your ranged attacks can shoot an unprepared foe right out 

of the air. Make a Strike with a ranged weapon or a thrown 

weapon against a flat-footed creature. If the Strike is a success 

and deals damage, the target must attempt a Reflex save 

against your class DC with the following effects. 

Success The target is unaffected. 

Failure The target falls up to 120 feet. If it hits the ground, it 
takes no damage from the fall. 

Critical Failure As failure, and the target can't fly, jump, levitate, 
or otherwise leave the ground until the end of your next turn. 


REACTIVE INTERFERENCE 2 FEAT 12 
EH 

Trigger An adjacent enemy begins to use a reaction. 
Grabbing a sleeve, swiping with your weapon, or creating 
another obstruction, you reflexively foil an enemy's 
response. If the triggering creature's level is equal to or 
lower than yours, you disrupt the triggering reaction. If the 
triggering creature's level is higher than yours, you must 
make an attack roll against its AC. On a success, you disrupt 
the reaction. 


SPRING FROM THE SHADOWS «> 


Í Flourish | ROGUE | 

Leaping out from hiding, you assail your target when they least 
expect it. You Stride up to your Speed, but you must end your 
movement next to an enemy you're hidden from or undetected 
by. You then Strike that enemy; you remain hidden from or 
undetected by that creature until after you Strike. You can use 
Spring from the Shadows while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or 
Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding 


movement type. 


14TH LEVEL 


DEFENSIVE ROLL €» FEAT 14 
Í rocue | 

Frequency once per 10 minutes 

Trigger A physical attack would reduce you to O Hit Points. 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 12 


Dropping into a roll to disperse the force of the blow, you can 
partially evade a lethal attack and stay conscious. You take 
half damage from the triggering attack. 


INSTANT OPENING «> 
CONCENTRATE | ROGUE | 
You distract your opponent with a few choice words or a rude 
gesture. Choose a target within 30 feet. It’s flat-footed against 
your attacks until the end of your next turn. Depending on the 
way you describe your distraction, this action gains either the 
auditory or visual trait. 


LEAVE AN OPENING 
| | 

When you hit hard enough, you leave an opening so your 
ally can jump in on the action. Whenever you critically hit a 
flat-footed opponent with a melee attack and deal damage, the 
target triggers an Attack of Opportunity reaction from one ally 
of your choice who has that reaction, as if the enemy had used 
a manipulate action. 


SENSE THE UNSEEN 2 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


Trigger You fail a check to Seek. 

When you look for foes, you catch the slightest of cues. Even 
though you failed at the triggering check, you automatically 
sense any undetected creatures in the area where you're 
Seeking, making them merely hidden to you. 


16TH LEVEL 


BLANK SLATE FEAT 16 


Prerequisites legendary in Deception 

Your deceptions confound even the most powerful mortal 
divinations. Detection, revelation, and scrying effects pass right 
Over you, your possessions, and your auras, detecting nothing 
unless the detecting effect has a counteract level of 10 or higher. 
For example, detect magic would still detect other magic in the 
area but not any magic on you, true seeing wouldn't reveal you, 
locate or scrying wouldn't find you, and so on. 


CLOUD STEP 

[ ac ] 

Prerequisites legendary in Acrobatics 
Using fantastic acrobatic skill, you can walk for brief stretches 
across insubstantial surfaces. When you Stride, you can move 
across water, air, and solid surfaces that can hold only limited 
weight as if they were normal ground. If you Stride over a trap 
with a weight-sensitive pressure plate, you don't trigger it. At 
the end of your turn, you sink, fall, break fragile surfaces, or 
trigger traps as normal for your current location. 


COGNITIVE LOOPHOLE 2 
Ea 


Trigger Your turn ends. 


FEAT 16 


FEAT 16 


Requirements You are currently affected by a mental effect that 

you gained by failing, but not critically failing, a saving throw. 
You can find a loophole in a mental effect to temporarily 
overcome it. Until the end of your next turn, you ignore asingle 
mental effect that meets the requirement. You can suppress a 
particular effect using Cognitive Loophole only once. 

Special You can use this reaction even if the mental effect is 
preventing you from using reactions. 


DISPELLING SLICE 99 


FEAT 16 


Your sneak attack slices through the threads binding magic to 
a target. Make a Strike against a flat-footed creature. If your 
Strike deals sneak attack damage, you attempt to counteract a 
single spell active on the target (your choice). Your counteract 
level is equal to half your level (rounded up), and your 
counteract check modifier is equal to your class DC - 10. 


PERFECT DISTRACTION «> FEAT 16 
| rocue | 

Prerequisites legendary in Deception 

You use clever tactics to mislead your foes as you sneak away. 
You Sneak while leaving a decoy behind. The decoy acts as 
the spell mislead, though you aren't invisible, just undetected. 
You can continue to concentrate to move your decoy, as with 
the spell, whether or not you remain hidden throughout the 
duration. Once you use Perfect Distraction, you need to spend 
10 minutes to set up another decoy before you can use it again. 


18TH LEVEL 


IMPLAUSIBLE INFILTRATION *>> FEAT 18 


| macica | move | rocue | 

Prerequisites legendary in Acrobatics, Quick Squeeze 
Requirements You are adjacent to a floor or vertical wall. 

You find tiny holes or imperfections that no one else could see 
and try to somehow fit yourself through them, possibly moving 
directly through the wall or floor from one side to the other. Your 
movement attempt fails if the wall or floor is made of something 
other than wood, plaster, or stone; is thicker than 10 feet; or 
contains even a thin layer of metal. If you have a climb Speed, 
you can use this ability to attempt to move through a ceiling. 


POWERFUL SNEAK FEAT 18 


Requirements When you make your daily preparations, you 
must specify a trigger for this reaction using the same 
restrictions as the triggers for the Ready action. You also 
choose a single spell from the arcane, divine, occult, or 
primal list of 4th level or lower. The spell can't have a cost, 
nor can its casting time be more than 10 minutes. The spell 
must be able to target a single creature, and you must be a 
valid target for it. 

Whether from jury-rigged magic items, stolen magical 

essence, or other means, you have a contingency in your 

back pocket for desperate situations. When the trigger 
occurs, you cause the spell to come into effect. The spell 
targets only you, no matter how many creatures it would 
affect normally. If you define particularly complicated 
conditions, as determined by the GM, the trigger might fail. 

Once the contingency is triggered, the spell is expended until 

your next daily preparations. 


20TH LEVEL 


HIDDEN PARAGON 2 FEAT 20 


| rocue | 

Prerequisites legendary in Stealth 

Frequency once per hour 

Trigger You successfully use Stealth to Hide and become 
hidden from all of your current foes, or use Stealth to Sneak 
and become undetected to all your current foes. 

When you put your mind to slipping out of sight, you disappear 

completely. You become invisible for 1 minute, even if you use 

a hostile action. Not even glitterdust, see invisibility, or similar 

effects can reveal you, though creatures can still use the Seek 

action to locate you as normal. 


IMPOSSIBLE STRIKER 
ETA 

Prerequisites Sly Striker 
Your attacks are swift and deadly beyond explanation. 
Nothing can prevent you from making a sneak attack, even 
if your opponent can see every blow coming. Instead of 
dealing the damage from Sly Striker, you can deal your full 
sneak attack damage to a target even if the target isn't 
flat-footed. 


REACTIVE DISTRACTION 2 


FEAT 20 


FEAT 20 


RO 

You "3 learned to exploit your enemies' lowered defenses. 
When you succeed or critically succeed at a Strike using your 
Strength modifier on the attack roll and you would deal sneak 
attack damage, you can change the additional damage from 
sneak attack into ordinary damage of the same type as your 
Strike, rather than precision damage. 


TRICKSTER SACE- S ACE 2 


FEAT 18 


E 2S necify the trigger when you make your daily 
preparations (see Requirements below). 


| CONCENTRATE | MANIPULATE | ROGUE | 

Prerequisites legendary in Deception, Perfect Distraction 

Trigger You would be hit by an attack or targeted by an effect, 
or you are within an effect's area. 

Requirements You have Perfect Distraction ready to use. 

You reactively switch with your decoy to foil your foe. You use 

Perfection Distraction, even if you were observed, as long as 

you end the movement of your Sneak while concealed or in a 

location with cover or greater cover. Your decoy is targeted 

by the attack or effect instead of you. In the case of an area 

effect, if your Sneak doesn't move you out of the area, both 

you and the decoy are targeted by the effect. 


EQUIPMENT 
ES 


SPELLS 
tr 


[^ 
HE AGE OF 
_ LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
. BAME 


f 3 TREASURE 


ADD ND 


>TO 


[PATHFINDER cone nuieaoox ] 


yaa, 
E "A—Qe 009 A — 


SORCERER 


communed with a primal creature, or a powerful occult ritual influenced your line. 
Self-reflection and study allow you to refine your inherent magical skills and unlock new, more 
powerful abilities. The power in your blood carries a risk, however, and you constantly face 
the choice of whether you'll rise to become a master spellcaster or fall into destruction. 


LR... 05 a a 


KEY ABILITY 
CHARISMA 


HIT POINTS 


6 plus your Constitution modifier 
You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 
level thereafter. 


At ist level, your class gives you 
an ability boost to Charisma. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You use spells to injure your enemies, influence their minds, and hamper their 
movements. You might be too vulnerable to get into melee combat, or your bloodline 
might give you abilities that help you hold your own in a brawl. While your magic is 
powerful, to conserve your best spells—or when you've used them all up—you also 
rely on cantrips. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


Your natural charisma makes you good at interacting with people. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


You detect the magic around you, finding treasures and warning your adventuring 
group of magical traps. When the group encounters mysteries or problems related to 
your bloodline, you try to solve them. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You craft magic items or scribe scrolls. Your bloodline might drive you to research 
your ancestry or associate with affiliated people or creatures. 


es MIGHT... 


Have a strong independent streak, and whether you embrace or reject your 
magical heritage, you long to distinguish yourself both as a spellcaster and as an 
individual. 

* View your lineage with fascination, fear, or something in between—anything from 
wholehearted acceptance to vehement rejection. 

* Rely on magic items, such as scrolls and wands, to supplement your limited 
selection of spells. 


OTHERS PROBABLY... 


* Marvel at your ability to create magic from thin air and view your abilities with 
equal parts admiration and mistrust. 

* Consider you less dedicated than studious wizards, devoted clerics, and other 
practitioners of magic, since power comes to you naturally. 

* Assume you're as unpredictable as the magic you bring forth, even if your 
personality proves otherwise. 


You didn't choose to become a spellcaster—you were born one. There's magic 
in your blood, whether a divinity touched one of your ancestors, a forebear 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


PERCEPTION 


Trained in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 


Trained in Fortitude 
Trained in Reflex 
Expert in Will 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


SKILLS 


Trained in one or more skills 
determined by your bloodline 

Trained in a number of 
additional skills equal to 2 plus 
your Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 


Trained in simple weapons 
Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Untrained in all armor 
Trained in unarmored defense 


SPELLS 


Trained in spell attack rolls of 
your spellcasting tradition, as 
indicated by your bloodline 

Trained in spell DCs of your 
spellcasting tradition, as 
indicated by your bloodline 


V sac TENT TG 


3 


CORE RULEBOOK 4 


TABLE 3-16: SORCERER ADVANCEMENT 


Your 

Level Class Features 

1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, 
bloodline, sorcerer spellcasting, spell repertoire 

2 Skill feat, sorcerer feat 

3 2nd-level spells, general feat, signature spells, 
skill increase 

4 Skill feat, sorcerer feat 

5 3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat, magical 
fortitude, skill increase 

6 Skill feat, sorcerer feat 

7 Ath-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat, 
skill increase 

8 Skill feat, sorcerer feat 

9 5th-level spells, ancestry feat, lightning reflexes, 
skill increase 

10 Ability boosts, skill feat, sorcerer feat 

11 6th-level spells, alertness, general feat, weapon 
expertise, skill increase 

12 Skill feat, sorcerer feat 

13 7th-level spells, ancestry feat, defensive robes, skill 
increase, weapon specialization 

14 Skill feat, sorcerer feat 

15 8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master 
spellcaster, skill increase 

16 Skill feat, sorcerer feat 

17 Sth-level spells, ancestry feat, resolve, skill increase 

18 Skill feat, sorcerer feat 

19 Bloodline paragon, general feat, legendary 


spellcaster, skill increase 
20 Ability boosts, skill feat, sorcerer feat 


CLASS FEATURES 


You gain these abilities as a sorcerer. Abilities gained at 
higher levels list the requisite levels next to their names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st 
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that 
represent your basic training, noted at the start of this class. 


BLOODLINE 


Choose a bloodline that gives you your spellcasting talent. 
This choice determines the type of spells you cast and 
the spell list you choose them from, additional spells you 
learn, and additional trained skills. You also gain Focus 
Points and special focus spells based on your bloodline. 
The bloodlines presented in this book are as follows. 

Aberrant: A strange and unknowable influence gives 

you occult spells. 
Angelic: Holy grace bestows divine spells upon you. 


Demonic: A sinful corruption gives you divine spells. 
Diabolic: A bond with devils gives you divine spells. 
Draconic: The blood of dragons grants you arcane spells. 
Elemental: The power of the elements manifests in 
you as primal spells. 
Fey: Influence from the fey gives you primal spells. 
Hag: The blight of a hag has given you occult spells. 
Imperial: An ancient power grants you arcane spells. 
Undead: The touch of death gives you divine spells. 
See Bloodlines on page 194 for more information. 


SORCERER SPELLCASTING 


Your bloodline provides you with incredible magical 
power. You can cast spells using the Cast a Spell activity, 
and you can supply material, somatic, and verbal 
components when casting spells (see Casting Spells on 
page 302). Because you’re a sorcerer, you can usually 
replace material components with somatic components, 
so you don’t need a material component pouch. 

Each day, you can cast up to three 1st-level spells. You 
must know spells to cast them, and you learn them via the 
spell repertoire class feature. The number of spells you can 
cast each day is called your spell slots. As you increase in 
level as a sorcerer, your number of spells per day increases, 
as does the highest level of spells you can cast, as shown on 
Table 3-17: Sorcerer Spells per Day on page 193. 

Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack 
roll to see how effective they are, or have your enemies 
roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving 
throw). Since your key ability is Charisma, your spell 
attack rolls and spell DCs use your Charisma modifier. 
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 447. 


HEIGHTENING SPELLS 

When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you 
can fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level 
spells. This increases the spell’s level to match the spell 
slot. You must have a spell in your spell repertoire at the 
level you want to cast in order to heighten it to that level. 
Many spells have specific improvements when they are 
heightened to certain levels (page 299). The signature 
spells class feature lets you heighten certain spells freely. 


CANTRIPS 

A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn't use spell 
slots. You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times 
per day. A cantrip is always automatically heightened to 
half your level rounded up—this is usually equal to the 
highest level of sorcerer spell slot you have. For example, 
as a 1st-level sorcerer, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, and 
as a Sth-level sorcerer, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells. 


SPELL REPERTOIRE 

The collection of spells you can cast is called your spell 
repertoire. At 1st level, you learn two 1st-level spells of 
your choice and four cantrips of your choice, as well as 


TABLE 3-17: SORCERER SPELLS PER DAY 


Your 
Level Cantrips 1st 


O1 


coco» 01 5» co o 


= 
O1 O1 O1 O1 O1 O1 O1 O1 O1 O1 OI O1 O1 O1 O1 O1 O1 C1 
BoRORORORRBDRSRRBDRBDBSBDRBRRBDRBRDRAIDACGO 
BRBRRRSRRRRRRRRKRKR ROW I 
BRRBESRRRHRRHRRRHRHRRKRD | 
BRR RRRHRPHRHRPHRHKRHKRD I! 


20 5 4 4 4 4 


Spell Level 


BoRERBRRBBRPBRBBPBRBPRCGO! 
BBRBRBBBBBGO! 
BoRERBRRBRPRC!| I 

| 


B&B! 
| 


4 4 4 4 T 


i 


* The bloodline paragon class feature gives you a 10th-level spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots. 


an additional spell and cantrip from your bloodline (page 
194). You choose these from the common spells from the 
tradition corresponding to your bloodline, or from other 
spells from that tradition to which you have access. You 
can cast any spell in your spell repertoire by using a spell 
slot of an appropriate spell level. 

You add to this spell repertoire as you increase in 
level. Each time you get a spell slot (see Table 3-17), 
you add a spell of the same level to your spell repertoire. 
When you gain access to a new level of spells, your first 
new spell is always the spell granted by your bloodline, 
but you can choose the other spells. At 2nd level, you 
select another 1st-level spell; at 3rd level, you gain a 
new spell from your bloodline and two other 2nd-level 
spells, and so on. When you add spells, you might select 
a higher-level version of a spell you already know so 
that you can cast a heightened version of that spell. 

Though you gain them at the same rate, your spell slots 
and the spells in your spell repertoire are separate. If a 
feat or other ability adds a spell to your spell repertoire, 
it wouldn't give you another spell slot, and vice versa. 


SWAPPING SPELLS IN Your REPERTOIRE 

As you gain new spells in your spell repertoire, you 
might want to replace some of the spells you previously 
learned. Each time you gain a level and learn new spells, 
you can swap out one of your old spells for a different 
spell of the same level. This spell can be a cantrip, but 
you can’t swap out bloodline spells. You can also swap 
out spells by retraining during downtime (page 481). 


SKILL FEATS eND 


At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
feat. Skill feats appear in Chapter 5 and have the skill 
trait. You must be trained or better in the corresponding 
skill to select a skill feat. 


SORCERER FEATS eND 


At 2nd level and every even-numbered level, you gain a 
sorcerer class feat. These begin on page 198. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


SIGNATURE SPELLS 3RD 


You've learned to cast some of your spells more flexibly. 
For each spell level you have access to, choose one spell 
of that level to be a signature spell. You don't need to 
learn heightened versions of signature spells separately; 
instead, you can heighten these spells freely. If you've 
learned a signature spell at a higher level than its 
minimum, you can also cast all its lower-level versions 
without learning those separately. 

If you swap out a signature spell, you can choose 
a replacement signature spell of the same spell level 
at which you learned the previous spell. You can also 
retrain specifically to change a signature spell to a 
different spell of that level without swapping any 
spells; this takes as much time as retraining a spell 
normally does. 


PLAYING THE 


BAME 


THE BLESSED AND THE DAMNED 

Many bloodlines are tied to certain types of creatures, 
and the reputations of those creatures might color 
how people see you. If you have the blood of demons, 
people might fear you; conversely, people of good faiths 
might assume angelic blood puts you on their side. 
These preconceptions aren't necessarily true. Having a 
bloodline of creatures of a certain alignment doesn't have 
any effect on your own alignment unless you want it to; 
your magic is disconnected from its source. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2. levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
increase. You can use an increase to either become trained in 
one skill you're untrained in, or to increase your proficiency 
rank in one skill in which you're already trained to expert. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a 
master in a skill in which you're already an expert, and 
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a 
skill in which you're already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At Sth level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 if 
it starts out below 18. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry's entry in Chapter 2. 


MAGICAL FORTITUDE STH 


Magical power has improved your body’s resiliency. Your 
proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases to expert. 


EXPERT SPELLCASTER 7TH 


Your inherent magic responds easily and powerfully to 
your command. Your proficiency ranks for spell attack 
rolls and spell DCs for spells of your bloodline’s tradition 
increase to expert. 


LIGHTNING REFLEXES STH 


Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for 
Reflex saves increases to expert. 


ALERTNESS ITH 


You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency 
rank for Perception increases to expert. 


WEAPON EXPERTISE ITH 


You’ve improved your combat skill. Your proficiency rank 
for simple weapons and unarmed attacks increase to expert. 


DEFENSIVE ROBES 13TH 


The flow of magic and your defensive training combine 
to help you avoid attacks. Your proficiency rank in 
unarmored defense increases to expert. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 13TH 


You’ve learned to inflict grave wounds with your most 
practiced weapons. You deal 2 additional damage with 
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an 
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and 
4 if you’re legendary. 


MASTER SPELLCASTER ISTH 


You have achieved mastery over the magic in your blood. 
Your proficiency ranks for spell attack rolls and spell DCs 
for spells of your bloodline’s tradition increase to master. 


RESOLVE 17TH 


You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency 
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a 
success on a Will save, you get a critical success instead. 


BLOODLINE PARAGON ISTH 


You have perfected the magic in your bloodline. Add 
two common 10th-level spells of your tradition to your 
repertoire. You gain a single 10th-level spell slot you can 
use to cast these spells, using sorcerer spellcasting. Unlike 
other spell slots, you don’t gain more 10th-level spells as 
you level up, and they can’t be used for abilities that let 
you cast spells without expending spell slots or abilities 
that give you more spell slots. You can take the Bloodline 
Perfection sorcerer feat to gain a second slot. 


LEGENDARY SPELLCASTER 19TH 


You demonstrate prodigious talent for spellcasting. Your 
proficiency ranks for spell attack rolls and spell DCs for 
spells of your bloodline’s tradition increase to legendary. 


BLOODLINES 

Choose your bloodline, the source of your power. It has a 
major influence on your abilities, determining your spell 
list, the tradition of spells you cast, and two trained skills. 


BLOODLINE SPELLS 


Your bloodline grants you bloodline spells, special spells 
unique to your lineage. Bloodline spells are a type of focus 
spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus spell, and you start 
with a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool 
during your daily preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus 
Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity. 
Unlike other characters, you dont need to do anything 
specific to Refocus, as the power flowing through your veins 
naturally replenishes your focus pool. 

Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your 
level rounded up. Focus spells don’t require spell slots, nor 


can you cast them using spell slots. Taking feats can give 
you more focus spells and increase the size of your focus 
pool, though your focus pool can never hold more than 
3 points. The full rules are on page 300. 


READING A BLOODLINE ENTRY 

A bloodline entry contains the following information. 
Spell List You use this magical tradition and spell list. 
Bloodline Skills You become trained in the listed skills. 
Granted Spells You automatically add the spells listed here to 
your spell repertoire, as described in Spell Repertoire on page 
192. At 1st level, you gain a cantrip and a 1st-level spell. You 
learn the other spells on the list as soon as you gain the ability 
to cast sorcerer spells of that level. 

Bloodline Spells You automatically gain the initial bloodline 
spell at 1st level and can gain more by selecting the Advanced 
Bloodline and Greater Bloodline feats. 

Blood Magic Whenever you cast a bloodline spell using Focus 
Points or a granted spell from your bloodline using a spell slot, 
you gain a blood magic effect. If the blood magic offers a choice, 
make it before resolving the spell. The blood magic effect occurs 
after resolving any checks for the spell's initial effects and, 
against a foe, applies only if the spell is a successful attack or 
the foe fails its saving throw. If the spell has an area, you must 
designate yourself or one target in the area when you cast the 
spell to be the target of the blood magic effect. All references to 
spell level refer to the level of the spell you cast. 


ABERRANT 


Something speaks to you from beyond the stars 
or below the earth. Ancient and unknowable, 
this alien influence presses against your mind. 
Spell List occult (page 311) 

Bloodline Skills Intimidation, Occultism 

Granted Spells cantrip: daze; 1st: spider sting; 
2nd: touch of idiocy; 3rd: vampiric touch; Ath: 
confusion; 5th: black tentacles; 6th: feeblemind; 
7th: warp mind; 8th: uncontrollable dance; 9th: 
unfathomable song 

Bloodline Spells initial: tentacular limbs; 
advanced: aberrant whispers; 
unusual anatomy 

Blood Magic Aberrant whispers shield € 
one target's mind or your own, granting $4 
a +2 status bonus to Will saving 
throws for 1 round. 


ANGELIC 


One of your forebears hailed 
from a celestial realm, or your 
ancestors’ devotion led to their lineage 
being blessed. 

Spell List divine (page 309) 

Bloodline Skills Diplomacy, Religion 
Granted Spells cantrip: light; 1st: heal; 2nd: 
spiritual weapon; 3rd: searing light; 4th: divine 


A ÁN, 


greater: ZZ m 
m 


A 


( 
V. 
A^, / 
M * 


a , 
gF 
RG 

: ub 


wrath; 5th: flame strike; 6th: blade barrier; 7th: divine decree; 
8th: divine aura; 9th: foresight 

Bloodline Spells initial: angelic halo; advanced: angelic wings; 
greater: celestial brand 

Blood Magic An angelic aura protects you or one target, 
granting a *1 status bonus to saving throws for 1 round. 


DEMONIC 


Demons debase all they touch. One of your ancestors fell 
victim to their corruption, and you are burdened by that sin. 
Spell List divine (page 309) 

Bloodline Skills Intimidation, Religion 

Granted Spells cantrip: acid splash; ist: fear; 2nd: enlarge; 
3rd: slow; 4th: divine wrath; 5th: Abyssal plague; 6th: 
disintegrate; 7th: divine decree; 8th: divine aura; 9th: implosion 


^ 


E 


" 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 

FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 

~ SPELLS 


AGE OF 


NN 


FEY-TOUCHED 


Your blood ties you to tbe magic of tbe First 
World and the otherworldly fey. Like them, you’re 


capricious, charming, and hard to pin down. 


ABILITY SCORES 
Improve your Charisma first. Good Dexterity, Constitution, 
and Wisdom provide solid defenses. 


SKILLS 
Deception, Diplomacy, Nature, Stealth 


BLOODLINE 
Fey 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Reach Spell (1st), Primal Evolution (4th), Advanced Bloodline 
(6th), Greater Bloodline (10th), Bloodline Focus (12th) 


SPELL REPERTOIRE 
1st charm, fleet step, summon fey; Cantrips dancing lights, 
daze, detect magic, ghost sound, tanglefoot 


Bloodline Spells initial: glutton's jaws; advanced: swamp of 
sloth; greater: Abyssal wrath 

Blood Magic The corruption of sin weakens a target’s defenses 
or makes you more imposing. Either a target takes a -1 status 
penalty to AC for 1 round, or you gain a *1 status bonus to 
Intimidation checks for 1 round. 


DIABOLIC 


Devils are evil with a silver tongue, and one of your 
ancestors dallied in darkness or made an infernal pact. 
Spell List divine (page 309) 

Bloodline Skills Deception, Religion 

Granted Spells cantrip: produce flame; 1st: charm; 2nd: flaming 
sphere; 3rd: enthrall; 4th: suggestion; 5th: crushing despair; 6th: 
true seeing; 7th: divine decree; 8th: divine aura; 9th: meteor swarm 
Bloodline Spells initial: diabolic edict; advanced: embrace the 
pit; greater: hellfire plume 

Blood Magic Hellfire scorches a target or fills your tongue with 
lies. Either a target takes 1 fire damage per spell level (if the spell 
already deals initial fire damage, combine this with the spell's 
initial damage before determining weaknesses and resistances), 
or you gain a *1 status bonus to Deception checks for 1 round. 


DRACONIC 


The blood of dragons flows through your veins. These 
beasts are both fearsome in combat and skilled at magic. 
Spell List arcane (page 307) 

Bloodline Skills Arcana, Intimidation 

Granted Spells cantrip: shield; 1st: true strike; 2nd: resist 
energy; 3rd: haste; 4th: spell immunity; 5th: chromatic wall; 
6th: dragon form; 7th: mask of terror; 8th: prismatic wall; 9th: 
overwhelming presence 

Bloodline Spells initial: dragon claws; advanced: dragon 
breath; greater: dragon wings 

Blood Magic Draconic scales grow briefly on you or one target, 
granting a *1 status bonus to AC for 1 round. 


Dracon Tyre 

At 1st level, choose the type of dragon that influenced your 
bloodline. You can't change your dragon type later. This 
affects how some of your bloodline spells function. The 
good metallic dragons and their damage types are brass 
(fire), bronze (electricity), copper (acid), gold (fire), and 
silver (cold). The evil chromatic dragons and their damage 
types are black (acid), blue (electricity), green (poison), red 
(fire), and white (cold). 


ELEMENTAL 


A genie ancestor or some other elemental influence has 
imbued your blood with primal fury. This affects how your 
blood magic works, along with your bloodline spells and 
granted spells marked with an asterisk (*). 

Spell List primal (page 314) 

Bloodline Skills Intimidation, Nature 

Granted Spells cantrip: produce flame"; 1st: burning hands"; 


2nd: resist energy; 3rd: fireball"; 4th: freedom of movement; 


5th: elemental form; 6th: repulsion; 7th: energy aegis; 8th: 
prismatic wall; 9th: storm of vengeance 

Bloodline Spells initial: elemental toss*; advanced: elemental 
motion; greater: elemental blast* 

Blood Magic Elemental energy surrounds you or a target. Either 
you gain a +1 status bonus to Intimidation checks for 1 round, or a 
target takes 1 damage per spell level. The damage is bludgeoning 
or fire, according to your elemental type (see below). If the spell 
already deals that type of damage, combine it with the spell's 
initial damage before determining weaknesses and resistances. 


ELEMENTAL TYPE 

Choose the type of elemental that influenced your bloodline: 
air, earth, fire, or water. If your element is air, you buffet your 
foes with powerful winds; if it’s earth, you toss huge chunks 
of rock; if it’s fire, you incinerate your foes with flame; and if 
it’s water, you inundate your foes with torrents of water. For 
fire, all marked spells deal fire damage. For other elements, 
they deal bludgeoning damage. You replace any existing 
elemental traits with the trait of the element you chose. 


FEY 


Fey whimsy or a tryst in a moonlit grove put the bewitching 


magic of the First World into your family’s bloodline. 


Spell List primal (page 314) 

Bloodline Skills Deception, Nature 

Granted Spells cantrip: ghost sound; 1st: charm; 2nd: hideous 
laughter; 3rd: enthrall; 4th: suggestion; 5th: cloak of colors; 
6th: mislead; 7th: visions of danger; 8th: uncontrollable dance; 
9th: resplendent mansion 

Bloodline Spells initial: faerie dust; 
disappearance; greater: fey glamour 

Blood Magic Colorful fey glamours dance around you or one 
target, causing them to be concealed for 1 round. Such obvious 
concealment can't be used to Hide. 


HAG 


A hag long ago cursed your family, or you are a descendant 


advanced: fey 


of a hag or changeling, and their accursed corruption 
infests your blood and soul. 

Spell List occult (page 311) 

Bloodline Skills Deception, Occultism 

Granted Spells cantrip: daze; 1st: illusory disguise; 2nd: touch 
of idiocy; 3rd: blindness; 4th: outcast's curse; 5th: mariner's 
curse; 6th: baleful polymorph; 7th: warp mind; 8th: spiritual 
epidemic; 9th: nature's enmity 

Bloodline Spells initial: jealous hex; advanced: horrific visage; 
greater: you're mine 


— wem MH e e Ee z 
rp 3 
j| Ei CORE RULEBOOK 3 
z a e ii - e m " “i 
KEY TERMS 


You'll see the following key terms in many sorcerer abilities. 

Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak 
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come 
from metamagic feats. You must use a metamagic action 
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you 
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other 
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of 
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a 
metamagic action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the 
metamagic action itself. 


Blood Magic Spiteful curses punish your foes. You deal 2 mental 
damage per spell level (basic Will save) to the first creature that 
deals damage to you before the end of your next turn. 


IMPERIAL 


One of your ancestors was a mortal who mastered magic. 
Such magical blood can remain latent for generations, 
but in you it manifested in full. 

Spell List arcane (page 307) 

Bloodline Skills Arcana, Society 

Granted Spells cantrip: detect magic; 1st: magic missile; 2nd: 
dispel magic; 3rd: haste; 4th: dimension door; 5th: prying 
eye; 6th: disintegrate; 7th: prismatic spray; 8th: maze; 9th: 
prismatic sphere 

Bloodline Spells initial: ancestral memories; advanced: extend 
spell; greater: arcane countermeasure 

Blood Magic A surge of ancestral memories grants you or one 
target a +1 status bonus to skill checks for 1 round. 


UNDEAD 


The touch of undeath runs through your blood. Your 
family tree might contain powerful undead, like a 
vampire, or perhaps you died and returned a bit different. 
Spell List divine (page 309) 

Bloodline Skills Intimidation, Religion 

Granted Spells cantrip: chill touch; 1st: harm; 2nd: false life; 3rd: 
bind undead; Ath: talking corpse; 5th: cloudkill; 6th: vampiric 
exsanguination; 7th: finger of death; 8th: horrid wilting; 9th: 
wail of the banshee 

Bloodline Spells initial: undeath’s blessing; advanced: drain 
life; greater: grasping grave 

Blood Magic Necromantic energy flows through you or one 
target. Either you gain temporary Hit Points equal to the 
spell's level for 1 round, or a target takes 1 negative damage 
per spell level (if the spell already deals initial negative 
damage, combine this with the spell's initial damage before 
determining weaknesses and resistances). 


SORCERER FEATS 


At every level at which you gain a sorcerer feat, you can 
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any 
prerequisites before taking the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


COUNTERSPELL 2 FEAT 1 


Í ABJURATION | SORCERER | 
Trigger A creature casts a spell that you have in your repertoire. 
Requirements You have an unexpended spell slot you could 
use to cast the triggering spell. 
When a foe Casts a Spell you know and you can see its 
manifestations, you can use your own magic to counter it. 
You expend one of your spell slots to counter the triggering 
creature's casting of a spell that you have in your repertoire. 
You lose your spell slot as if you had cast the triggering spell. 
You then attempt to counteract the triggering spell (page 458). 
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition 
of spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal). 


DANGEROUS SORCERY 
| sorcerer 

Your legacy grants you great destructive power. When you 
Cast a Spell from your spell slots, if the spell deals damage and 
doesn't have a duration, you gain a status bonus to that spell's 
damage equal to the spell's level. 


FAMILIAR 
An animal serves you and assists your spellcasting. You gain a 
familiar (rules for familiars are found on page 217). 


REACH SPELL 9 

| CONCENTRATE | METAMAGIC | SORCERER | 
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you 
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell's range 
by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if the spell 
normally has a range of touch, you extend its range to 30 feet. 


WIDEN SPELL +> FEAT1 


| MANIPULATE | METAMAGIC | SORCERER | 
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect a 
wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has 
an area of a burst, cone, or line and does not have a duration, 
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius of a 
burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst 
with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 feet to the length 
of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, and 
add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line. 


2ND LEVEL 


CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT 2 


You better understand the basic power of your bloodline. Add 
two additional cantrips from your spell list to your repertoire. 


ENHANCED FAMILIAR FEAT 2 


Prerequisites a familiar 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


You infuse your familiar with additional magical energy. You can select four familiar or master 
abilities each day, instead of two. 


4TH LEVEL 


ARCANE EVOLUTION FEAT 4 


ARCANE | SORCERER 
Prerequisites bloodline that grants arcane spells 
Your arcane legacy grants you an exceptional aptitude for intellectual and academic 
pursuits. You become trained in one skill of your choice. Additionally, you keep a book of 
arcane spells similar to a wizard's spellbook. You add all the spells in your spell repertoire 
to this book for free, and you can add additional arcane spells to the book by paying the 
appropriate cost and using your Arcana skill, similarly to how a wizard can Learn Spells to 
add those spells to his spellbook. 

During your daily preparations, choose any one spell from your book of arcane spells. 
If it isn't in your spell repertoire, add it to your spell repertoire until the next time you 
prepare. If it's already in your spell repertoire, add it as an additional signature spell 
for that day. 


BESPELL WEAPON €? FEAT 4 


ECCE 
Frequency once per turn 
Requirements Your most recent action was to cast a non-cantrip spell. 
You siphon the residual energy from the last spell you cast into one weapon you're wielding. 
Until the end of your turn, the weapon deals an extra 1d6 damage of a type depending on 
the school of the spell you just cast. 

* Abjuration force damage 

* Conjuration or Transmutation the same type as the weapon 

* Divination, Enchantment, or Illusion mental damage 

* Evocation a type the spell dealt, or force damage if the spell didn't deal damage 

* Necromancy negative damage 


DIVINE EVOLUTION FEAT 4 


DIVINE | SORCERER | 
Prerequisites bloodline that grants divine spells 
The divine might provided by your bloodline flows through you. You gain an additional 
spell slot of your highest level, which you can use only to cast your choice of heal or 
harm. You can cast either of these spells using that spell slot, even if they aren't in your 
spell repertoire. 


OCCULT EVOLUTION FEAT 4 
Prerequisites bloodline that grants occult spells 

Glimpses of the obscure secrets of the universe loan you power. You become trained in one 
skill of your choice. Additionally, once per day, you can spend 1 minute to choose one mental 
occult spell you don't know and add it to your spell repertoire. You lose this temporary spell 
the next time you make your daily preparations (though you can use this ability to add it 
again later). 


PRIMAL EVOLUTION FEAT 4 
! 

Prerequisites bloodline that grants primal spells 

You can call upon the creatures of the wild for aid. You gain an additional spell slot of 
your highest level, which you can use only to cast summon animal or summon plant or 
fungus. You can cast either of these spells using that spell slot, even if it they aren't in your 
spell repertoire. 


SORCERER FEATS 
If you need to look up a sorcerer 
feat by name instead of by level, 
use this table. 


Feat » 
Advanced Bloodline 6 LASSES 
Arcane Evolution 4 ee oo 
Bespell Weapon 4 

Bloodline Conduit 20 

Bloodline Focus 12 

Bloodline Perfection 20 § ay 


Bloodline Resistance 
Bloodline Wellspring 
Cantrip Expansion 
Counterspell 


8 | EQUIPMENT 

8 'u 

2 

1 
Crossblooded Evolution 8 

1 

4 

6 

2 

1 


A 


SPELLS 
Y 


= 


4 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


Dangerous Sorcery 
Divine Evolution 
Effortless Concentration 
Enhanced Familiar 


c 


PLAYING THE 


Familiar x GAME 
Greater Bloodline 10 i 

Greater Crossblooded 18 

Evolution 


Greater Mental Evolution — 16 
Greater Vital Evolution 16 


Interweave Dispel 14 
Magic Sense 12 
Metamagic Mastery 20 
Occult Evolution 4 
Overwhelming Energy 10 
Primal Evolution 4 
Quickened Casting 10 
Reach Spell 1 
Reflect Spell 14 
Steady Spellcasting 6 
Widen Spell 1 


SAMPLE SORCERER 


— — 


DEMONBLOOD 


The grotesque and chaotic creatures of the Abyss left 
their mark on your family’s bloodline. You have a 


vicious streak and find wanton destruction thrilling. 
TN f P 
ABILITY SCORES 


Your Charisma is most important, and boosting Strength, 
Dexterity, and Constitution make you a better combatant. 


SKILLS 


Athletics, Deception, Intimidation, Religion 


BLOODLINE 


Demonic 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 

Dangerous Sorcery (1st), Divine Evolution (4th), Advanced 
Bloodline (6th), Bloodline Resistance (8th), Greater 
Bloodline (10th), Bloodline Focus (12th) 


SPELL REPERTOIRE 
dst bane, fear, harm; Cantrips acid splash, chill touch, detect 
magic, light, shield 


STH LEVEL 


ADVANCED BLOODLINE FEAT 6 
Prerequisites bloodline spell 

You have studied your bloodline to learn the secrets of its 
magic. You gain the advanced bloodline spell associated with 
your bloodline. Increase the number of Focus Points in your 
focus pool by 1. 


STEADY SPELLCASTING FEAT 6 
You are confident in your spellcasting technique, and you 
are more easily able to retain your concentration when you 
Cast a Spell. If a reaction would disrupt your spellcasting 
action, attempt a DC 15 flat check. If you succeed, your action 
isnt disrupted. 


8TH LEVEL 


BLOODLINE RESISTANCE FEAT 8 
Your magical blood makes you more resistant to magic. You 
gain a *1 status bonus to saving throws against spells and 
magical effects. 


CROSSBLOODED EVOLUTION FEAT8 
Odd interactions in your bloodline provide you with 
unexpected spells. You can have one spell in your spell 
repertoire from a tradition other than the one that matches 
your bloodline. You cast that spell as a spell from your 
bloodline's tradition. You can swap which spell you add and 
from which tradition as you could any other sorcerer spell, but 
you can't have more than one spell from another tradition in 
your spell repertoire at the same time using this feat. 


10TH LEVEL 


GREATER BLOODLINE FEAT 10 
Prerequisites bloodline spell 

Further communion with the legacy of your bloodline has 
uncovered greater secrets. You gain the greater bloodline spell 
associated with your bloodline. Increase the number of Focus 
Points in your focus pool by 1. 


OVERWHELMING ENERGY +> 
You alter your spells to overcome resistances. If the next 
action you use is to Cast a Spell, the spell ignores an amount 
of the target's resistance to acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic 
damage equal to your level. This applies to all damage the 
spell deals, including persistent damage and damage caused 
by an ongoing effect of the spell, such as the wall created by 
wall of fire. A creature's immunities are unaffected. 


FEAT 10 


QUICKENED CASTING €» FEAT 10 


| CONCENTRATE | METAMAGIC | SORCERER | 
Frequency once per day 


In a mentally strenuous process, you modify your casting of a 
spell to take less time. If your next action is to cast a sorcerer 
cantrip or a sorcerer spell that is at least 2 levels lower than 
the highest-level sorcerer spell slot you have, reduce the 
number of actions to cast it by 1 (minimum 1 action). 


12TH LEVEL 


BLOODLINE FOCUS FEAT 12 


You maintain a spell with hardly a thought. You immediately 
gain the effects of the Sustain a Spell action, allowing you to 
extend the duration of one of your active sorcerer spells. 


GREATER MENTAL EVOLUTION FEAT 16 
Prerequisites Arcane Evolution or Occult Evolution 

Your bloodline's deep connection to mental essence greatly 
enhances your spell repertoire. Add one spell to your spell 
repertoire for each spell level you can cast. 


GREATER VITAL EVOLUTION 


FEAT 16 


| soncERER | 


Prerequisites bloodline spell 


l SORCERER } 


Prerequisites Divine Evolution or Primal Evolution 


Your focus recovers faster. If you have spent at least 2 Focus 
Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus 
Points when you Refocus instead of 1. 


ee SENE — 


FEAT 12 


T have a literal sixth sense for magic. You can sense the 
presence of magic auras as though you were always using a 
1st-level detect magic spell. This detects magic in your field of 
vision only. When you Seek, you gain the benefits of a 3rd-level 
detect magic spell on things you see (in addition to the normal 
benefits of Seeking). You can turn this sense off and on with a 
free action at the start or the end of your turn. 

Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition 
of spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal). 


14TH LEVEL 


Vital power surges through you like a font of energy. Twice 
per day, you can cast a spell after you've run out of spell slots 
of the appropriate spell level; the two spells you cast with this 
feat must be of different spell levels. 


18TH LEVEL 


BLOODLINE WELLSPRING FEAT 18 
Prerequisites Bloodline Focus 

Your blood's power replenishes your focus. If you have spent 
at least 3 Focus Points since the last time you Refocused, you 
recover 3 Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1. 


GREATER CROSSBLOODED EVOLUTION 


Prerequisites Crossblooded Evolution 


FEAT 18 


INTERWEAVE DISPEL 9 FEAT 14 


| METAMAGIC | sorcerer - | 
Prerequisites dispel magic in your spell repertoire 


You weave dispelling energy into a spell. If your next action is to 
cast a single-target spell against a creature, and you either hit the 
foe with the spell attack roll or the foe fails its saving throw, you 
can cast dispel magic on the foe as a free action, expending a spell 
slot as normal and targeting one spell effect affecting the foe. 


REFLECT SPELL FEAT 14 


Prerequisites Counterspell 

When you successfully use Counterspell to counteract a spell 
that affects targeted creatures or an area, you can turn that spell's 
effect back on its caster. When reflected, the spell affects only 
the original caster, even if it's an area spell or it would normally 
affect more than one creature. The original caster can attempt a 
save and use other defenses against the reflected spell as normal. 


16TH LEVEL 


EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION € FEAT 16 


Trigger Your turn begins. 


Your bloodline is extraordinarily complex. You can have up 
to three spells from other traditions in your spell repertoire, 
rather than just one. These spells must each be of a different 
spell level, but they don't need to be from the same tradition. 


20TH LEVEL 


BLOODLINE CONDUIT «> FEAT 20 
| METAMAGIC | SORCERER | 

Frequency once per minute 

Your inborn magical nature lets you redirect ambient energies 
to fuel your spells. If your next action is to Cast a Spell of 
5th level or lower that has no duration, you don't expend the 
spell’s slot when you cast it. 


BLOODLINE PERFECTION 


Prerequisites bloodline paragon 
You command the ultimate powers of your bloodline and 


tradition. You gain an additional 10th-level spell slot. 


METAMAGIC MASTERY 


Altering your spells doesn't take any longer than casting them 
normally. You can use metamagic single actions as free actions. 


FEAT 20 


FEAT 20 


CLASSES 


l 
E 
| 


[^ 
.. THE AGE OF 
LosT OMENS 


| pra THE 
GAME 


4 
á 
"T 


ON E 
4 | PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
LJ s mm 3 


> 


CC"-V 


WIZARD 


You are an eternal student of the arcane secrets of tbe universe, using your 
mastery of magic to cast powerful and devastating spells. You treat magic like a 
science, cross-referencing tbe latest texts on practical spellcraft witb ancient esoteric tomes 


to discover and understand how magic works. Yet magical theory is vast, and there's no 


way you can study it all. You either specialize in one of the eight schools of magic, gaining 


deeper understanding of the nuances of those spells above all others, or favor a broader 
approach that emphasizes the way all magic comes together at the expense of depth. 


HIT POINTS 


6 plus your Constitution modifier 
You increase your maximum number of 
HP by this number at 1st level and every 
level thereafter. 


KEY ABILITY 
INTELLIGENCE 


At 1st level, your class gives you 


an ability boost to Intelligence. 


DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS... 


You likely try to stay out of the fray, carefully judging when to use your spells. You 
save your most powerful magic to incapacitate threatening foes and use your cantrips 
when only weaker foes remain. When enemies pull out tricks like invisibility or flight, 
you answer with spells like glitterdust or earth bind, leveling the field for your allies. 


DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS... 


You provide a well of knowledge about arcane matters and solve arguments with logic. 


WHILE EXPLORING... 


You locate magical auras and determine the arcane significance of magical writing 
or phenomena you uncover. When you run across an unusual obstacle to further 
exploration, you probably have a scroll that will make it easier to overcome. 


IN DOWNTIME... 


You learn new spells, craft magic items, or scribe scrolls for your party, and seek 
out new and exciting formulas in addition to spells. You might even forge scholarly 
connections and establish a school or guild of your own. 


m MIGHT... 


Have an unquenchable intellectual curiosity about how everything in the world 
around you works—magic in particular. 

* Believe fervently that your school of magic is superior (if you're a specialist) or that 
true mastery of magic requires knowledge of all schools (if you're a universalist). 

* Use esoteric jargon and technical terms to precisely describe the minutiae of 
magical effects, even though the difference is probably lost on other people. 


areng PROBABLY... 


Consider you to be incredibly powerful and potentially dangerous. 

e Fear what your magic can do to their minds, bodies, and souls, and ask that you 
avoid casting spells in polite company, as few can identify whether one of your 
spells is harmless or malevolent until it’s too late. 

e Assume you can easily solve all their problems, from dangerous weather to poor 
crop yields, and ask you for spells that can help them get whatever they desire. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain the 

listed proficiency ranks in 

the following statistics. You 
are untrained in anything 

not listed unless you gain a 
better proficiency rank in some 
other way. 


PERCEPTION 


Trained in Perception 


SAVING THROWS 
Trained in Fortitude 
Trained in Reflex 
Expert in Will 


SKILLS 

Trained in Arcana 

Trained in a number of additional 
skills equal to 2 plus your 
Intelligence modifier 


ATTACKS 

Trained in the club, crossbow, 
dagger, heavy crossbow, and 
staff 

Trained in unarmed attacks 


DEFENSES 


Untrained in all armor 
Trained in unarmored defense 


SPELLS 


Trained in arcane spell attacks 
Trained in arcane spell DCs 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


STE c 


m CO mee ET a 
PATHFİNDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
E asnata SoBe - me EE ede | 


TABLE 3-18: WIZARD ADVANCEMENT 

Your 

Level Class Features 

1 Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, arcane 
spellcasting, arcane school, arcane bond, arcane thesis 

2 Skill feat, wizard feat 

3 2nd-level spells, general feat, skill increase 

4 Skill feat, wizard feat 

5 3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat, lightning 
reflexes, skill increase 


6 Skill feat, wizard feat 
7 Ath-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat, 
skill increase 
8 Skill feat, wizard feat 
9 5th-level spells, ancestry feat, magical fortitude, 
skill increase 
10 Ability boosts, skill feat, wizard feat 
1i 6th-level spells, alertness, general feat, skill increase, 


wizard weapon expertise 

12 Skill feat, wizard feat 

13 7th-level spells, ancestry feat, defensive robes, skill 
increase, weapon specialization 

14 Skill feat, wizard feat 

15 8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master 
spellcaster, skill increase 

16 Skill feat, wizard feat 


17 9th-level spells, ancestry feat, resolve, skill increase 
18 Skill feat, wizard feat 
19 Archwizard's spellcraft, general feat, 


legendary spellcaster, skill increase 
20 Ability boosts, skill feat, wizard feat 


CLASS FEATURES 


You gain these abilities as a wizard. Abilities gained at 
higher levels list the levels next to their names. 


ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND 


In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st 
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and 
background, as described in Chapter 2. 


INITIAL PROFICIENCIES 


At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that 
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are 
noted at the start of this class. 


ARCANE SPELLCASTING 


Through dedicated study and practice, you can harness 
arcane power to cast spells. You can cast arcane spells 
using the Cast a Spell activity, and you can supply 
material, somatic, and verbal components when casting 
spells (see Casting Spells on page 302). 

At 1st level, you can prepare up to two 1st-level spells 
and five cantrips each morning from the spells in your 


spellbook (see below), plus one extra cantrip and spell of 
your chosen school of each level you can cast if you are 
a specialist wizard. Prepared spells remain available to 
you until you cast them or until you prepare your spells 
again. The number of spells you can prepare is called 
your spell slots. 

As you increase in level as a wizard, your number of 
spell slots and the highest level of spells you can cast from 
spell slots increase, shown in Table 3-19: Wizard Spells 
per Day on page 205. 

Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack 
roll to see how effective they are, or have your enemies roll 
against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving 
throw). Since your key ability is Intelligence, your spell 
attack rolls and spell DCs use your Intelligence modifier. 
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 447. 


HEIGHTENING SPELLS 

When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can 
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells. 
This increases the spell’s level, heightening it to match the 
spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements when 
they are heightened to certain levels. 


CANTRIPS 

A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn’t use spell 
slots. You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times 
per day. A cantrip is always automatically heightened to 
half your level rounded up—this is usually equal to the 
highest level of wizard spell slot you have. For example, as 
a 1st-level wizard, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, and as 
a Sth-level wizard, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells. 


SPELLBOOK 

Every arcane spell has a written version, usually recorded 
in a spellbook. You start with a spellbook worth 10 sp 
or less (as detailed on page 291), which you receive for 
free and must study to prepare your spells each day. The 
spellbook contains your choice of 10 arcane cantrips and 
five 1st-level arcane spells. You choose these from the 
common spells on the arcane spell list (page 307) or from 
other arcane spells you gain access to. Your spellbook’s 
form and name are up to you. It might be a musty, 
leather-bound tome or an assortment of thin metal disks 
connected to a brass ring; its name might be esoteric, like 
The Crimson Libram, or something more academic, like 
A Field Study in Practical Transmutation. 

Each time you gain a level, you add two arcane spells to 
your spellbook, of any level for which you have spell slots. 
You can also use the Arcana skill to add other spells that you 
find in your adventures, as described on page 241. 


ARCANE SCHOOL 


Many arcane spellcasters delve deeply into a single school 
of magic in an attempt to master its secrets. If you want to 
be a specialist wizard, choose a school in which to specialize. 


TABLE 3-19: WIZARD SPELLS PER DAY 


Your 


Level Cantrips 1st 


1 5 2 = = = 
2 5 3 = = = 
3 5 3 2 = 
4 5 3 3 = = 
5 5 3 3 2 = 
6 S 3 3 3 = 
7 5 3 3 3 2 
8 5 3 3 3 3 
9 5 3 3 B 3 
10 5 3 3 3 3 
1 5 3 3 3 3 
12 5 3 3 3 3 
13 S 3 3 3 3 
14 5 3 3 3 3 
15 5 B 3 3 3 
16 5 3 3 3 3 
17 5 3 3 3 3 
18 5 3 3 3 3 
19 5 3 3 3 3 
20 5 3 3 3 3 


Spell Level 


2) z = 
3 = = - 
3 2 = = 
3 3 = = 
3 3 2 = 
3 3 3 = 
3 3 3 2 
3 3 3 3 
3 3 3 3 
3 3 3 3 
3 3 3 3 
3 3 3 3 3 


* The archwizard's spellcraft class feature gives you a 10th-level spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots. 


You gain additional spells and spell slots for spells of your 
school. Arcane schools are described in detail on page 207. 
If you don’t choose a school, you’re a universalist, a 
wizard who believes that the path to true knowledge of 
magic requires a multidisciplinary understanding of all 
eight schools working together. Though a universalist lacks 
the focus of a specialist wizard, they have greater flexibility. 
Universalist wizards are described on page 209. 


ARCANE BOND 


You place some of your magical power in a bonded item. 
Each day when you prepare your spells, you can designate 
a single item you own as your bonded item. This is typically 
an item associated with spellcasting, such as a wand, ring, 
or staff, but you are free to designate a weapon or other 
item. You gain the Drain Bonded Item free action. 


DRAIN BONDED ITEM € 

Frequency once per day 

You expend the power stored in your bonded item, as long 
as the item is on your person. During your turn, you gain the 
ability to cast one spell you prepared today and already cast, 
without spending a spell slot. You must still Cast the Spell and 
meet the spell’s other requirements. 


ARCANE THESIS 


During your studies to become a full-fledged wizard, you 


produced a thesis of unique magical research on one of a 
variety of topics. You gain a special benefit depending on 


the topic of your thesis research. The arcane thesis topics 
presented in this book are below; your specific thesis 
probably has a much longer and more technical title like 
“On the Methods of Spell Interpolation and the Genesis 
of a New Understanding of the Building Blocks of Magic.” 


IMPROVED FAMILIAR ATTUNEMENT 

You’ve long held that fine-tuning the magic that bonds 
wizard and familiar can improve the mystic connection, 
compared to the safe yet generic bond most wizards 
currently use. You’ve formed such a pact with your familiar, 
gaining more advantages from it than most wizards. You 
gain the Familiar wizard feat. Your familiar gains an extra 
ability, and it gains an additional extra ability when you 
reach 6th, 12th, and 18th levels. 

Your connection with your familiar alters your arcane 
bond class feature so that you store your magical energy 
in your familiar, rather than an item you own; you also 
gain the Drain Familiar free action instead of Drain 
Bonded Item. Drain Familiar can be used any time an 
ability would allow you to use Drain Bonded Item and 
functions identically, except that you draw magic from 
your familiar instead of an item. 


METAMAGICAL EXPERIMENTATION 

You’ve realized that the practice known as metamagic is a 
holdover from a time long ago, when wizards had to work 
out their own spells and variations rather than rely on spells 
recorded by others and passed down over the years. This 
allows you efficient access to various metamagic effects. 


SAMPLE SPELLBOOK 

You can fill your spellbook with whichever spells you like, 
but the list below covers a good selection of starter spells 
for a 1st-level wizard. These are the exact spells found 
in Structure and Interpretation of Arcane Magic, a basic 
spellbook used by arcane academies and master wizards 
to teach apprentices good habits in arcane research. 

Cantrips: Acid splash, detect magic, electric arc, light, 
mage hand, message, prestidigitation, ray of frost, read 
aura, and shield. 

1st Level: Burning hands, color spray, grease, mage 
armor, and magic missile, plus one spell of your school if 
you're a specialist wizard. 


You gain one 1st-level metamagic wizard feat of your 
choice. Starting at 4th level, during your daily preparations, 
you can gain a metamagic wizard feat of your choice that 
has a level requirement of no more than half your level, 
which you can use until your next daily preparations. 


SPELL BLENDING 
You theorize that spell slots are a shorthand for an 
underlying energy that powers all spellcasting, and 
you’ve found a way to tinker with the hierarchy of spell 
slots, combining them to fuel more powerful spells. 
When you make your daily preparations, you can trade 
two spell slots of the same level for a bonus spell slot of 
up to 2 levels higher than the traded spell slots. You can 


exchange as many spell slots as you have available. 


Bonus spell slots must be of a level you can normally 
cast, and each bonus spell slot must be of a different 

spell level. You can also trade any spell slot for two 
additional cantrips, though you cannot trade more 
than one spell slot at a time for additional cantrips in 


' this way. 


SPELL SUBSTITUTION 
You don’t accept the fact that once spells are prepared, 
they can’t be changed until your next daily preparation, 
and you have uncovered a shortcut allowing you to 
substitute new spells for those you originally prepared. 
You can spend 10 minutes to empty one of your 
prepared spell slots and prepare a different spell from 
your spellbook in its place. If you are interrupted during 
such a swap, the original spell remains prepared and can 
still be cast. You can try again to swap out the spell later, 
but you must start the process over again. 


SKILL FEATS 2ND 
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain 
a skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and 
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the 
corresponding skill to select a skill feat. 


WIZARD FEATS END 


At 2nd level and every even-numbered level thereafter, you 
gain a wizard class feat. These feats begin on page 209. 


GENERAL FEATS 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a 
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5. 


SKILL INCREASES 3RD 


At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill 
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your 
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained 
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in 
which you’re already trained to expert. 

At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase 
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re 


already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to 
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in 
which you’re already a master. 


ABILITY BOOSTS STH 


At Sth level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four 
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to 
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability 
score increases it by 1 if it's already 18 or above, or by 2 
if it starts out below 18. 


ANCESTRY FEATS STH 


In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain 
an ancestry feat at Sth level and every 4 levels thereafter. 
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in 
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2. 


LIGHTNING REFLEXES STH 


Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for 
Reflex saves increases to expert. 


EXPERT SPELLCASTER 7TH 


Extended practice of the arcane has improved your 
capabilities. Your proficiency ranks for arcane spell 
attack rolls and spell DCs increase to expert. 


MAGICAL FORTITUDE STH 


Magical power has improved your body’s resiliency. Your 
proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases to expert. 


ALERTNESS ATH 


You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency 
rank for Perception increases to expert. 


WIZARD WEAPON EXPERTISE ITH 


Through a combination of magic and training, you’ve 
learned how to wield wizard weapons more effectively. 
You gain expert proficiency in the club, crossbow, 
dagger, heavy crossbow, staff, and unarmed attacks. 


DEFENSIVE ROBES 13TH 


The flow of magic and your training combine to help 
you avoid attacks. Your proficiency rank in unarmored 
defense increases to expert. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 13TH 


You've learned how to inflict greater injuries with the 
weapons you know best. You deal an additional 2 damage 
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an 
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you're a master, and 
4 if you're legendary. 


MASTER SPELLCASTER ISTH 


You command superlative spellcasting ability. Your 
proficiency ranks for arcane spell attack rolls and spell 
DCs increase to master. 


RESOLVE 17TH 


You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency 
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a 
success at a Will save, you get a critical success instead. 


ARCHWIZARD’S SPELLCRAFT ISTH 


You command the most potent arcane magic and can 
cast a spell of truly incredible power. You gain a single 
10th-level spell slot and can prepare a spell in that slot 
using arcane spellcasting. You can’t use this spell slot for 
abilities that let you cast spells without expending spell 
slots or that give you more spell slots. Unlike with other 
spell slots, you don’t gain more 10th-level spells as you 
level up, though you can take the Archwizard’s Might feat 
to gain a second slot. 


LEGENDARY SPELLCASTER ISTH 


You are a consummate spellcaster, blending both arcane 
theory and practical spellcraft. Your proficiency ranks for 
arcane spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to legendary. 


ARCANE SCHOOLS 

If you specialize in an arcane school, rather than studying 
each school equally (as universalists do), you gain an extra 
spell slot at each spell level for which you have wizard spell 
slots. You can prepare only spells of your chosen arcane 
school in these extra slots. In addition, you can prepare an 
extra cantrip of your chosen school. You also add another 
arcane spell of your chosen school to your spellbook. 

You learn a school spell, a special type of spell unique to 
your arcane school. School spells are a type of focus spell. It 
costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with 
a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool 
during your daily preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus 
Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity to 
study your spellbook or conduct arcane research. 

Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your 
level rounded up. Focus spells don’t require spell slots, 
nor can you cast them using spell slots. Certain feats can 
give you more focus spells and increase the size of your 
focus pool, though your focus pool can never hold more 
than 3 Focus Points. The full rules for focus spells appear 
on page 300. 


ABJURATION 


Asan abjurer, you master the art of protection, strengthening 
defenses, preventing attacks, and even turning magic 
against itself. You understand that an ounce of prevention 
is worth a pound of cure. You add one 1st-level abjuration 
spell (such as feather fall) to your spellbook. You learn the 
protective ward school spell (page 407). 


CONJURATION 


As a conjurer, you summon creatures and objects from 
places beyond, and use magic to transport to distant locales. 


LASSES 


EQUIPMENT 
"ONES 
; ‘SPELLS 
Im 
- THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


B TREASURE 


DATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


SAMPLE WIZARD You understand that the true key to victory is strength in 
* 3 s Ww numbers. You add one 1st-level conjuration spell (such as 
summon animal) to your spellbook. You learn the augment 


summoning school spell (page 406). 


DIVINATION 


As a diviner, you master remote viewing and prescience, 
learning information that can transform investigations, 
research, and battle strategies. You understand that 
knowledge is power. You add one 1st-level divination 
spell (such as true strike) to your spellbook. You learn the 
diviner's sight school spell (page 406). 


ENCHANTMENT 


As an enchanter, you use magic to manipulate 

others’ minds. You might use your abilities 
to subtly influence others or seize control 
over them. You understand that the mind 
surpasses matter You add one 1st-level 
enchantment spell (such as charm) to your 
spellbook. You learn the charming words 
school spell (page 406). 


EVOCATION 


As an evoker, you revel in the raw power of 
magic, using it to create and destroy with ease. 
You can call forth elements, forces, and energy to 
devastate your foes or to assist you in other ways. You 
understand that the most direct approach is the most 
elegant. You add one 1st-level evocation spell (such as 


shocking grasp) to your spellbook. You learn the force bolt 
CONJU RER school spell (page 407). 

Your magic summons creatures, transports you, and 
creates useful items. You know about odd creatures ILLUSION 
and distant realms. As an illusionist, you use magic to create images, figments, 
— : and phantasms to baffle your enemies. You understand 

| i that perception is reality. You add one 1st-level illusion 
ABILITY SCORES spell (such as illusory object) to your spellbook. You learn 
Prioritize Intelligence. Dexterity, Constitution, and the warped terrain school spell (page 407). 


Wisdom round out your defenses. 
NECROMANCY 


SKILLS As a necromancer, you call upon the powers of life 

Arcana, Crafting, Diplomacy, Nature, Occultism, Religion, and death. While your school is often vilified for its 

Society 
-R : control over life also means control over healing. You 

SPECIALIZATION add one 1st-level necromancy spell (such as grim tendrils) 

Conjuration to your spellbook. You learn the call of the grave school 
r spell (page 406). 


association with raising the undead, you understand that 


THESIS 
Improved Familiar Attunement TRANSMUTATION 
= ——— ess As a transmuter, you alter the physical properties of things, 
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS transforming creatures, objects, the natural world, and 
Enhanced Familiar (2nd), Advanced School Spell (8th), even yourself at your whim. You understand that change 
Effortless Concentration (16th) is inevitable. You add one 1st-level transmutation spell 
(such as magic weapon) to your spellbook. You learn the 
physical boost school spell (page 407). 


UNIVERSALIST WIZARDS 


Instead of specializing narrowly in an arcane school, you 


can become a universalist wizard—by studying all the 
schools equally, you devote yourself to understanding 
the full breadth of the arcane arts. For each level of 
wizard spell slots you have, you can use Drain Bonded 
item once per day to recall a spell of that level (instead 
of using it only once per day in total). You gain an extra 
wizard class feat, and you add one 1st-level spell of your 
choice to your spellbook. 


WIZARD FEATS 

At each level that you gain a wizard feat, you can 
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any 
prerequisites before taking the feat. 


IST LEVEL 


COUNTERSPELL 2 FEAT 1 
| ABJURATION | ARCANE [ WIZARD | 

Trigger A creature Casts a Spell that you have prepared. 
When a foe Casts a Spell and you can see its manifestations, 
you can use your own magic to counter it. You expend a 
prepared spell to counter the triggering creature's casting of 
that same spell. You lose your spell slot as if you had cast the 


triggering spell. You then attempt to counteract the triggering 
spell (page 458). 


ESCHEW MATERIALS 
You can use clever workarounds to replicate the arcane essence 
of certain materials. When Casting a Spell that requires material 
components, you can provide these material components without 
a material component pouch by drawing intricate replacement 
sigils in the air. Unlike when providing somatic components, you 
still must have a hand completely free. This doesn't remove the 
need for any materials listed in the spell's cost entry. 


FAMILIAR 
You make a pact with a creature that serves you and assists 
your spellcasting. You gain a familiar (page 217). 


HAND OF THE APPRENTICE 
Prerequisites universalist wizard 
You can magically hurl your weapon at your foe. You gain the 
hand of the apprentice universalist spell. Universalist spells 
are a type of focus spell, much like school spells. You start 
with a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. See Arcane Schools on page 
207 for more information about focus spells. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 
FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


E CORE RULEBOOK 43 


ae 


— va MIO e ae E 


KEY TERM 

You'll see the following key term in many wizard abilities. 

Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak 
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come 
from metamagic feats. You must use a metamagic action 
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you 
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other 
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of 
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a 
metamagic action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the 
metamagic action itself. 


REACH SPELL 9 


CONCENTRATE | METAMAGIC | WIZARD 
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you 
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s range 
by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if the spell 
normally has a range of touch, you extend its range to 30 feet. 


WIDEN SPELL +> FEAT 1 


Í MANIPULATE | METAMAGIC | WIZARD | 

You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect a 
wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has 
an area of a burst, cone, or line and does not have a duration, 
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius of a 
burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst 
with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 feet to the length 
of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, and 
add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line. 


BND LEVEL 


CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT2 
Dedicated study allows you to prepare a wider range of simple 
spells. You can prepare two additional cantrips each day. 


CONCEAL SPELL 9 FEAT2 


CONCENTRATE | MANIPULATE | METAMAGIC | WIZARD 
Hiding your gestures and incantations within other speech 
and movement, you attempt to conceal the fact that you are 
Casting a Spell. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell, 
attempt a Stealth check against one or more observers' 
Perception DCs; if the spell has verbal components, you 
must also attempt a Deception check against the observers' 
Perception DC. If you succeed at your check (or checks) 
against an observer's DC, that observer doesn't notice you're 
casting a spell, even though material, somatic, and verbal 
components are usually noticeable and spells normally have 
sensory manifestations that would make spellcasting obvious 
to those nearby. 

This ability hides only the spell's spellcasting actions and 
manifestations, not its effects, so an observer might still see a 
ray streak out from you or see you vanish into thin air. 


FEAT 1 


ENHANCED FAMILIAR 
| wizaro | 
Prerequisites a familiar 
You infuse your familiar with additional magical energy. You 
can select four familiar or master abilities each day, instead 
of two. 

Special If your arcane thesis is improved familiar attunement, 
your familiar’s base number of familiar abilities, before adding 
any extra abilities from the arcane thesis, is four. 


4TH LEVEL 


BESPELL WEAPON & FEAT 4 
Frequency once per turn 
Requirements Your most recent action was to cast a 

non-cantrip spell. 
You siphon spell energy into one weapon you're wielding. Until 
the end of your turn, the weapon deals an extra 1d6 damage 
of a type depending on the school of the spell you just cast. 

* Abjuration force damage 

* Conjuration or Transmutation same type as the weapon 

* Divination, Enchantment, or Illusion mental damage 

* Evocation a type the spell dealt, or force damage if the 

spell didn't deal damage 
* Necromancy negative damage 


LINKED FOCUS 

Prerequisites arcane bond, arcane school 
Frequency once per day 

You have linked your bonded item to the well of energy that 
powers your school spells. When you Drain your Bonded Item to 
cast a spell of your arcane school, you also regain 1 Focus Point. 


SILENT SPELL *> FEAT 4 


| CONCENTRATE | METAMAGIC | WIZARD | 

Prerequisites Conceal Spell 

You've learned how to cast many of your spells without 
speaking the words of power you would normally need to 
provide. If the next action you use is Casting a Spell that has 
a verbal component and at least one other component, you can 
remove the verbal component. This makes the spell quieter and 
allows you to cast it in areas where sound cant carry. However, 
the spell still has visual manifestations, so this doesn't make 
the spell any less obvious to someone who sees you casting it. 
When you use Silent Spell, you can choose to gain the benefits 
of Conceal Spell, and you don't need to attempt a Deception 
check because the spell has no verbal components. 


BTH LEVEL 


SPELL PENETRATION FEAT 6 


You've studied ways of overcoming the innate magical 
resistance that dragons, otherworldly beings, and certain 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 4 


other powerful creatures have. Any creature that has a status bonus to saving throws 
against magic reduces that bonus by 1 against your spells. 


STEADY SPELLCASTING 
Confident in your technique, you dont easily lose your concentration when you Cast a 
Spell. If a reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC 15 flat check. If you 
succeed, your action isn't disrupted. 


8TH LEVEL 


ADVANCED SCHOOL SPELL FEAT8 
| wzaro | 

Prerequisites arcane school 

You gain access to a powerful new school spell depending on your arcane school. If you're an 
abjurer, you gain energy absorption; if you're a conjurer, you gain dimensional steps; if you're a 
diviner, you gain vigilant eye; if you're an enchanter, you gain dread aura; if you're an evoker, you 
gain elemental tempest; if you're an illusionist, you gain invisibility cloak; if you're a necromancer, 
you gain life siphon; and if you're a transmuter, you gain shifting form. The descriptions of these 
spells are on pages 406-407. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


BOND CONSERVATION «> FEAT8 


FEAT 6 


| MANIPULATE | METAMAGIC | WIZARD | 
Prerequisites arcane bond 
Requirements The last action you used was Drain Bonded Item. 


By carefully manipulating the arcane energies stored in your bonded item as you drain it, you 
can conserve just enough power to cast another, slightly weaker spell. If the next action you 
use is to Cast a Spell using the energy from Drain Bonded Item, you gain an extra use of Drain 
Bonded Item. You must use this extra use of Drain Bonded Item before the end of your next 
turn or you lose it, and you can use this additional use only to cast a spell 2 or more levels 
lower than the first spell cast with Drain Bonded Item. 


UNIVERSAL VERSATILITY 

Prerequisites universalist wizard, Hand of the Apprentice 
You can access the fundamental abilities of any school of magic. During your daily 
preparations, choose one of the eight school spells gained by 1st-level specialist wizards. 
You can use that school spell until your next daily preparations. When you Refocus, you can 
choose a different school spell from among those eight school spells, replacing the previous 
one. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. 


10TH LEVEL 


OVERWHELMING ENERGY «> FEAT 10 


FEAT8 


MANIPULATE | METAMAGIC | WIZARD | 
With a complex gesture, you alter the energy of your spell to overcome resistances. If the 
next action you use is to Cast a Spell, the spell ignores an amount of the target's resistance 
to acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic damage equal to your level. This applies to all damage 
the spell deals, including persistent damage and damage caused by an ongoing effect of the 
spell, such as the wall created by wall of fire. A creature's immunities are unaffected. 


QUICKENED CASTING © FEAT 10 


| CONCENTRATE | METAMAGIC | WIZARD | 
Frequency once per day 


In a mentally strenuous process, you modify your casting of a spell to take less time. If 
your next action is to cast a wizard cantrip or a wizard spell that is at least 2 levels lower 


WIZARD FEATS 


If you need to look up a wizard 
feat by name instead of by level, 


use this table. 


Feat 
Advanced School Spell 
Archwizard's Might 
Bespell Weapon 

Bond Conservation 
Bonded Focus 

Cantrip Expansion 
Clever Counterspell 
Conceal Spell 
Counterspell 
Effortless Concentration 
Enhanced Familiar 
Eschew Materials 
Familiar 

Hand of the Apprentice 
Infinite Possibilities 
Linked Focus 

Magic Sense 
Metamagic Mastery 
Overwhelming Energy 
Quickened Casting 
Reach Spell 

Reflect Spell 
Reprepare Spell 

Scroll Savant 

Silent Spell 

Spell Combination 
Spell Penetration 
Spell Tinker 

Steady Spellcasting 
Superior Bond 
Universal Versatility 
Widen Spell 


Level 
8 
20 


LASSES 


" 


EQUIPMENT 


HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
. GAME 

Ti 

e | 34 GAME 

MASTERING 

La 


& TREASURE 


SAMPLE WIZARD 


_— om 


E 


ILLUSIONIST 


You cast illusory spells that fool the senses, and you 
excel at bypassing threats without violence. 


Th ime 


ABILITY SCORES 

Prioritize Intelligence. Increase Dexterity and Charisma 
so you can sneak and deceive people with skills as well 
as spells. 


SKILLS 
Arcana, Deception, Diplomacy, Occultism, Society, 
Stealth, Thievery 


SPECIALIZATION 


Illusion 


THESIS 
Spell blending 


HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS 
Conceal Spell (2nd), Silent Spell (4th), Advanced School 
Spell (8th), Magic Sense (12th) 


than the highest-level wizard spell slot you have, reduce the 
number of actions to cast it by 1 (minimum 1 action). 


SCROLL SAVANT FEAT 10 
Prerequisites expert in Crafting 

During your daily preparations, you can create two temporary 
scrolls containing arcane spells from your spellbook. These 
scrolls follow the normal rules for scrolls (page 564), with some 
additional restrictions. Each scroll must be of a different spell 
level, and both spell levels must be 2 or more levels lower than 
your highest-level spell. Any scrolls you create this way become 
non-magical the next time you make your daily preparations. A 
temporary scroll has no value. 

If you have master proficiency in arcane spell DCs, you can 
create three temporary scrolls during your daily preparations, 
and if you have legendary proficiency, you can create four 
temporary scrolls. 


12TH LEVEL 


CLEVER COUNTERSPELL FEAT 12 
Prerequisites Counterspell, Quick Recognition 

You creatively apply your prepared spells to Counterspell a 
much wider variety of your opponents’ magic. Instead of being 
able to counter a foe's spell with Counterspell only if you have 
that same spell prepared, you can use Counterspell as long as 
you have the spell the foe is casting in your spellbook. When 
you use Counterspell in this way, the prepared spell you expend 
must share a trait other than its tradition with the triggering 
spell. At the GM's discretion, you can instead use a spell that 
has an opposing trait or that otherwise logically would counter 
the triggering spell (such as using a cold or water spell to 
counter fireball or using remove fear to counter a fear spell). 
Regardless of what spell you expend, you take a -2 penalty to 
your counteract check, though the GM can waive this penalty if 
the expended spell is especially appropriate. 


MAGIC SENSE 

ES | WIZARD | 
You have a literal sixth sense for ambient magic in your vicinity. 
You can sense the presence of magic auras as though you were 
always using a 1st-level detect magic spell. This detects magic in 
your field of vision only. When you Seek, you gain the benefits 
of a 3rd-level detect magic spell on things you see (in addition 
to the normal benefits of Seeking). You can turn this sense off 
and on with a free action at the start or the end of your turn. 


14TH LEVEL 


BONDED FOCUS FEAT 14 
Prerequisites arcane bond 

Your connection to your bonded item increases your focus pool. 
If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last time 


FEAT 12 


you Refocused and your bonded item is in your possession, you 
recover 2 Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1. 


REFLECT SPELL 

| wzaro | 

Prerequisites Counterspell 
When you successfully use Counterspell to counteract a spell 
that affects targeted creatures or an area, you can turn that spell's 
effect back on its caster. When reflected, the spell affects only 
the original caster, even if it's an area spell or it would normally 
affect more than one creature. The original caster can attempt a 
save and use other defenses against the reflected spell as normal. 


SUPERIOR BOND 
Prerequisites arcane bond 
When you draw upon your bonded item, you can leave a bit of 
energy within it for later use. You can use Drain Bonded Item 
one additional time per day, but only to cast a spell 2 or more 
levels lower than your highest-level wizard spell slot. 


16TH LEVEL 


EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION <> FEAT 16 
Trigger Your turn begins. 

You maintain a spell with hardly a thought. You immediately 
gain the effects of the Sustain a Spell action, allowing you to 
extend the duration of one of your active wizard spells. 


SPELL TINKER >> FEAT 16 


| CONCENTRATE | WIZARD | 
You've learned to alter choices you make when casting spells 
on yourself. After casting a spell on only yourself that offers 
several choices of effect (such as resist energy, spell immunity, 
or a polymorph spell that offers several potential forms), you 
can alter the choice you made when Casting the Spell (for 
instance, choosing a different type of damage for resist energy). 
However, your tinkering weakens the spell's integrity, reducing 
its remaining duration by half. 

You cant use this feat if the benefits of the spell have already 
been used up or if the effects of the first choice would persist in 
any way after switching (for instance, if one of the choices was 
to create a consumable item you already used, or to heal you), 
or if the feat would create an effect more powerful than that 
offered by the base spell. The GM is the final arbiter of what 
Spell Tinker can be applied to. 


18TH LEVEL 


INFINITE POSSIBILITIES FEAT 18 


| wzaro | 

You've found a way to prepare a spell slot that exists in your 
mind as many different possibilities at once. Once during your 
daily preparations, you can use a spell slot to hold that infinite 


potential, rather than using it to prepare a spell. You can use this 


FEAT 14 


FEAT 14 


spell slot to cast any spell from your spellbook that’s at least 
2 levels lower than the slot you designate; the spell acts in all 
ways as a spell of 2 levels lower. You don’t have any particular 
spell prepared in that slot until you cast it. 


REPREPARE SPELL 
You've discovered how to reuse some of your spell slots over 
and over. You can spend 10 minutes to prepare a spell that 
you already cast today, regaining access to that spell slot. The 
spell must be of 4th level or lower and one that does not have 
a duration. You can reprepare a spell in this way even if you've 
already reprepared that spell previously in the same day. 

If you have the spell substitution arcane thesis, you can 
instead prepare a different spell in an expended slot, as long as 
the new spell doesn't have a duration. Once you've reprepared 
a spell in that slot even once, you can use your arcane thesis 
to substitute only spells without durations into that spell slot. 


20TH LEVEL 


ARCHWIZARD'S MIGHT FEAT 20 


FEAT 18 


Prerequisites archwizard's spellcraft 
You have mastered the greatest secrets of arcane magic. You 
gain an additional 10th-level spell slot. 


METAMAGIC MASTERY 


FEAT 20 


Altering your spells doesn't take any longer than casting them 
normally. You can use metamagic single actions as free actions. 


SPELL COMBINATION FEAT 20 
You can merge spells, producing multiple effects with a single 
casting. One slot of each level of spell you can cast, except 
2nd level and 1st level, becomes a spell combination slot (this 
doesn't apply to cantrips). When you prepare your spells, you 
can fill a combination slot with a combination of two spells. 
Each spell in the combination must be 2 or more spell levels 
below the slot's level, and both must target only one creature or 
object or have the option to target only one creature or object. 
Each spell in the combination must also have the same means of 
determining whether it has an effect—both spells must require a 
ranged spell attack roll, require the same type of saving throw, 
or automatically affect the target. 

When you cast a combined spell, it affects only one target, 
even if the component spells normally affect more than one. If 
any spell in the combination has further restrictions (such as 
targeting only living creatures), you must abide by all restrictions. 
The combined spell uses the shorter of the component spells' 
ranges. Resolve a combined spell as if were a single spell, but 
apply the effects of both component spells. For example, if the 
spell's target succeeded at the save against a combined spell, it 
would apply the success effect of each spell, and if it critically 
failed, it would apply the critical failure effect of both spells. 


' CLASSES 
| 
| 


f 


m 


EQUIPMENT 
T 


SPELLS 
t 


- 
3 


[^ 
.. THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
= _ GAME 


al 


= wem VEI ae omn ere 
j| F CORE RULEBOOK 4 
: ——H———— i d = i 


ANIMAL COMPANIONS AND FAMILIARS 


Some adventurers travel with loyal allies known as animal companions and familiars. The 
former begin as young animals but acquire impressive physical abilities as you level up, while 


the latter share a magical bond with you. 


—— iggy 


ANIMAL COMPANIONS 

An animal companion is a loyal comrade who follows 
your orders. Your animal companion has the animal and 
minion traits, and it gains 2 actions during your turn if you 
use the Command an Animal action to command it; this 
replaces the usual effects of Command an Animal, and you 
don’t need to attempt a Nature check. If your companion 
dies, you can spend a week of downtime to replace it at no 
cost. You can have only one animal companion at a time. 


RIDING ANIMAL COMPANIONS 


You or an ally can ride your animal companion as long as 
it is at least one size larger than the rider. If it is carrying a 
rider, the animal companion can use only its land Speed, and 
it can’t move and Support you on the same turn. However, if 
your companion has the mount special ability, it’s especially 
suited for riding and ignores both of these restrictions. 


YOUNG ANIMAL COMPANIONS 


The following are the base statistics for a young animal 
companion, the first animal companion most characters 
get. You adjust these statistics depending on the type of 
animal you choose. A companion has the same level 
you do. As you gain levels, you might make further 
adjustments as your companion grows more powerful. 
Animal companions calculate their modifiers and DCs just 
as you do with one difference: the only item bonuses they 
can benefit from are to Speed and AC (their maximum 
item bonus to AC is +3). 


PROFICIENCIES 

Your animal companion is trained in its unarmed attacks, 
unarmored defense, barding, all saving throws, Perception, 
Acrobatics, and Athletics. Animal companions can’t use 
abilities that require greater Intelligence, such as Coerce 
or Decipher Writing, even if trained in the appropriate 
skill, unless they have a specialization that allows it. 


Asiity MoniFiers 

An animal companion begins with base ability modifiers 
of Str +2, Dex +2, Con +1, Int -4, Wis +1, Cha +0. Each 
type has its own strengths and increases two of these 
modifiers by 1 each. These increases are already calculated 
into the stat blocks in Companion Types below. 


Hir Ponts 

Your animal companion has ancestry Hit Points from 
its type, plus a number of Hit Points equal to 6 plus its 
Constitution modifier for each level you have. 


MATURE ANIMAL COMPANIONS 


To advance a young animal companion to a mature 
animal companion (usually a result of one of your class 
feat choices), increase its Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, 
and Wisdom modifiers by 1. Increase its unarmed attack 
damage from one die to two dice (for instance 1d8 to 
2d8), and its proficiency rank for Perception and all 
saving throws to expert. Increase its proficiency ranks in 
Intimidation, Stealth, and Survival to trained, and if it was 
already trained in one of those skills from its type, increase 
its proficiency rank in that skill to expert. If yourattack 

companion is Medium or smaller, it grows by one size. 


NIMBLE ANIMAL COMPANIDNS 


To advance a mature animal companion to a nimble 
animal companion, increase its Dexterity modifier by 2. 
and its Strength, Constitution, and Wisdom modifiers by 
1. It deals 2 additional damage with its unarmed attacks. 
Increase its proficiency ranks in Acrobatics to expert. It 
also learns the advanced maneuver for its type. Its attacks 
become magical for the purpose of ignoring resistances. 


SAVAGE ANIMAL COMPANIONS 


To advance a mature animal companion to a savage animal 
companion, increase its Strength modifier by 2 and its 
Dexterity, Constitution, and Wisdom modifiers by 1. It deals 
3 additional damage with its unarmed attacks. Increase 
its proficiency rank in Athletics to expert. It also learns 
the advanced maneuver for its type. If your companion is 
Medium or smaller, it grows by one size. Its attacks become 
magical for the purpose of ignoring resistances. 


COMPANION TYPES 


The species of animal you choose is called your companion’s 
type. Each companion type has its own statistics. The 
Size entry indicates your companion’s starting size as a 
young animal companion. Following the size entry are 
the companion’s unarmed attacks, and then its ability 
modifiers. The Hit Points entry indicates the companion’s 
ancestry Hit Points. The Skill entry indicates an additional 
trained skill your companion has. The Senses entry lists 
your companion’s special senses. The Speed entry gives 
your companion’s Speeds. The Special entry, if present, lists 
any other special abilities your companion has, for example 
whether it often serves as a mount and is particularly 
appropriate for mounted classes, such as the champion. 
The Support Benefit entry indicates a special benefit you 
gain by Commanding the Animal to use the Support action 
(see below). The Advanced Maneuver entry indicates a 


powerful new action your companion learns how to use if 
it becomes a nimble or savage animal companion. 


SUPPORT -9 

Requirements The creature is an animal companion. 

Your animal companion supports you. You gain the benefits 
listed in the companion types Support Benefit entry. If the 
animal uses the Support action, the only other actions it can 
use on this turn are basic move actions to get into position to 
take advantage of the Support benefits; if it has already used 
any other action this turn, it can't Support you. 


BADGER 

Your companion is a badger, wolverine, or other big mustelid. 

Size Small 

Melee *> jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing 

Melee *> claw (agile), Damage 1d6 slashing 

Str +2, Dex +2, Con +2, Int -4, Wis +2, Cha +0 

Hit Points 8 

Skill Survival 

Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet) 

Speed 25 feet, burrow 10 feet, climb 10 feet 

Support Benefit Your badger digs around your foe's position, 
interfering with its footing. Until the start of your next turn, if 
you hit and deal damage to a creature your badger threatens, 
the target can’t use a Step action (unless it can Step through 
difficult terrain) until it moves from its current position. 

Advanced Maneuver Badger Rage 


BADGER RAGE +> 

| cover | eonan | mema ] 

Requirements The badger isn't fatigued or raging. 

The badger enters a state of pure rage that lasts for 1 minute, until 
there are no enemies it can perceive, or until it falls unconscious, 
whichever comes first. It can't voluntarily stop raging. While 
raging, the badger is affected in the following ways. 

* |t deals 4 additional damage with its bite attacks and 2 
additional damage with its claw attacks. 

e |ttakes a -1 penalty to AC. 

* |t cant use actions that have the concentrate trait 
unless they also have the rage trait. The animal 
companion can Seek even while raging. 

After it has stopped raging, it cant use Badger Rage again 
for 1 minute. 


BEAR 

Your companion is a black, grizzly, polar, or other type of bear. 
Size Small 

Melee *> jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing 

Melee *> claw (agile), Damage 1d6 slashing 

Str +3, Dex +2, Con +2, Int -4, Wis +1, Cha +0 

Hit Points 8 

Skill Intimidation 

Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet) 

Speed 35 feet 

Support Benefit Your bear mauls your enemies when you create 


an opening. Until the start of your next turn, each time you 
hit a creature in the bear's reach with a Strike, the creature 
takes 1d8 slashing damage from the bear. If your bear is 
nimble or savage, the slashing damage increases to 2d8. 
Advanced Maneuver Bear Hug 
BEAR HUG *> | CLASSES 
Requirements The bear's last action was a successful claw Strike. | “OQ 
The bear makes another claw Strike against the same target. 
If this Strike hits, the target is also grabbed, as if the bear had 
successfully Grappled the target. 


BIRD 

Your companion is a bird of prey, such as an eagle, hawk, or owl. 
Size Small 

Melee *$ jaws (finesse), Damage 1d 6 piercing a 
Melee *> talon (agile, finesse), Damage 1d4 slashing . 


EQUIPMENT 


T 


‘SPELLS 


HE AGE OF 


Str +2, Dex +3, Con +1, Int -4, Wis +2, Cha +0 - 

Hit Points 4 . LOST OMENS 
Skill Stealth | 

Senses low-light vision i PLAYING THE 


Speed 10 feet, fly 60 feet 

Support Benefit The bird pecks at your foes’ eyes when you 
create an opening. Until the start of your next turn, your 
Strikes that damage a creature that your bird threatens also 
deal 1d4 persistent bleed damage, and the target is dazzled 
until it removes the bleed damage. If your bird is nimble or 
savage, the persistent bleed damage increases to 2d4. 

Advanced Maneuver Flyby Attack 


FLYBY ATTACK 9$ 


The bird Flies and makes a talon Strike at any point along the way. 


CAT 

Your companion is a big cat, such as a leopard or tiger. 

Size Small 

Melee *$ jaws (finesse), Damage 1d6 piercing 

Melee *> claw (agile, finesse), Damage 1d4 slashing 

Str +2, Dex +3, Con +1, Int -4, Wis +2, Cha +0 

Hit Points 4 

Skill Stealth 

Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet) 

Speed 35 feet 

Special Your cat deals 1d4 extra precision damage against flat- 
footed targets. 

Support Benefit Your cat throws your enemies off-balance when 
you create an opening. Until the start of your next turn, your 
Strikes that deal damage to a creature within your cat's reach 
make the target flat-footed until the end of your next turn. 

Advanced Maneuver Cat Pounce 


CAT POUNCE *> 


| FLOURISH | 
The cat Strides and then Strikes. If it was undetected at the start 
of its Cat Pounce, it remains undetected until after the attack. 


GAME 


| PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK : 


DROMAEOSAUR 


Your companion is a dromaeosaur (also called a raptor), such 

as a velociraptor or deinonychus. 

Size Small 

Melee ‘> jaws (finesse), Damage 1d8 piercing 

Melee *> talon (agile, finesse), Damage 1d6 slashing 

Str +2, Dex +3, Con +2, Int -4, Wis +1, Cha +0 

Hit Points 6 

Skill Stealth 

Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet) 

Speed 50 feet 

Support Benefit Your raptor constantly darts into flanking 
position. Until the start of your next turn, it counts as being in 
its space or an empty space of your choice within 10 feet when 
determining whether you and your companion are flanking; 
you can choose a different space for each of your attacks. 

Advanced Maneuver Darting Attack 


DARTING ATTACK *> 


HORSE 

Your companion is a horse, pony, or similar equine. 

Size Medium or Large 

Melee * hoof (agile), Damage 1d6 bludgeoning 

Str +3, Dex +2, Con +2, Int -4, Wis +1, Cha +0 

Hit Points 8 

Skill Survival 

Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet) 

Speed 40 feet 

Special mount 

Support Benefit Until the start of your next turn, if you're 
mounted on your horse and moved 10 feet or more on the 
action before a melee Strike, add a circumstance bonus to 
damage for that Strike equal to twice the number of weapon 
damage dice. If your weapon already has the jousting weapon 
trait, increase the trait's damage bonus by 2 per die instead. 

Advanced Maneuver Gallop 


GALLOP 99 


The raptor Steps up to 10 feet and then Strikes, or Strikes and 
then Steps up to 10 feet. 


The horse Strides twice at a +10-foot circumstance bonus to Speed. 


SNAKE 

Your companion is a constrictor snake, such as a boa or python. 

Size Small 

Melee *$ jaws (finesse), Damage 1d8 piercing 

Str +3, Dex +3, Con +1, Int -4, Wis +1, Cha +0 

Hit Points 6 

Skill Stealth 

Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet) 

Speed 20 feet, climb 20 feet, swim 20 feet 

Support Benefit Your snake holds your enemies with its coils, 
interfering with reactions. Until the start of your next turn, 
any creature your snake threatens can’t use reactions 
triggered by your actions unless its level is higher than yours. 

Advanced Maneuver Constrict 


CONSTRICT 9 

Requirements The snake has a smaller creature grabbed. 

The snake deals 12 bludgeoning damage to the grabbed creature; 
the creature must attempt a basic Fortitude save. If the snake is a 
specialized animal companion, increase this damage to 20. 


WOLF 

Your companion is a wolf or other canine creature, such as a dog. 

Size Small 

Melee *$ jaws (finesse), Damage 1d8 piercing 

Str +2, Dex +3, Con +2, Int -4, Wis +1, Cha +0 

Hit Points 6 

Skill Survival 

Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet) 

Speed 40 feet 

Support Benefit Your wolf tears tendons with each opening. 
Until the start of your next turn, your Strikes that damage 
creatures your wolf threatens give the target a -5-foot status 
penalty to its Speeds for 1 minute (-10 on a critical success). 


Advanced Maneuver Knockdown 


KNOCKDOWN +> 


Requirements The animal companion’s last action was a 
successful jaws Strike. 
The wolf automatically knocks the target of its jaws Strike prone. 


SPECIALIZED ANIMAL COMPANIONS 


Specialized animal companions are more intelligent and 


engage in more complex behaviors. The first time an animal 
gains a specialization, it gains the following: Its proficiency 
rank for unarmed attacks increases to expert. Its proficiency 
ranks for saving throws and Perception increase to master. 
Increase its Dexterity modifier by 1 and its Intelligence 
modifier by 2. Its unarmed attack damage increases from 
two dice to three dice, and it increases its additional damage 
with unarmed attacks from 2 to 4 or from 3 to 6. 

Each specialization grants additional benefits. Most 
animal companions can have only one specialization. 


AMBUSHER 

In your companion’s natural environment, it can use a 
Sneak action even if it’s currently observed. Its proficiency 
rank in Stealth increases to expert (or master if it was 
already an expert from its type), and its Dexterity modifier 
increases by 1. Its proficiency rank for unarmored defense 
increases to expert. 


Buty 

Your companion terrorizes foes with dominance displays 
and pushes them around the battlefield. Its proficiency 
ranks for Athletics and Intimidation increase to expert 
(or master if it was already expert from its type), its 
Strength modifier increases by 1, and its Charisma 
modifier increases by 3. 


DAREDEVIL 

Your companion joins the fray with graceful leaps and 
dives. It gains the deny advantage ability, so it isn’t flat- 
footed to hidden, undetected, or flanking creatures unless 
such a creature’s level is greater than yours. Its proficiency 
rank in Acrobatics increases to master, and its Dexterity 
modifier increases by 1. Its proficiency rank in unarmored 
defense increases to expert. 


RACER 

Your companion races. It gains a +10-foot status bonus 
to its Speed, swim Speed, or fly Speed (your choice). Its 
proficiency in Fortitude saves increases to legendary, and 
its Constitution modifier increases by 1. 


TRACKER 

Your companion is an incredible tracker. It can move at full 
Speed while following tracks. Its proficiency rank in Survival 
increases to expert (or master if it was already an expert 
from its type), and its Wisdom modifier increases by 1. 


WRECKER 
Your companion smashes things. Its unarmed attacks 
ignore half an object’s Hardness. Its Athletics proficiency 
increases to master, and its Strength modifier increases by 1. 


FAMILIARS 


Familiars are mystically bonded creatures tied to your 
magic. Most familiars were originally animals, though the 
ritual of becoming a familiar makes them something more. 
You choose a Tiny animal as your familiar, such as a bat, 
cat, raven, or snake. Some familiars are different, usually 
described in the ability that granted you a familiar; for 
example, a druid’s leshy familiar has the plant or fungus 
trait instead of animal. A familiar has the same level you do. 

Familiars have the minion trait (page 634), so during 
an encounter, they gain 2 actions in a round if you spend 
an action to command them. If your familiar dies, you 
can spend a week of downtime to replace it at no cost. 
You can have only one familiar at a time. 


MODIFIERS AND AC 


Your familiar’s save modifiers and AC are equal to 
yours before applying circumstance or status bonuses or 
penalties. Its Perception, Acrobatics, and Stealth modifiers 
are equal to your level plus your spellcasting ability 
modifier (Charisma if you don’t have one, unless otherwise 
specified). It can’t make Strikes, but it can use trained skill 
actions for skills for which it adds your spellcasting ability 
modifier. If it attempts an attack roll or other skill check, it 
uses your level as its modifier. It doesn’t have or use its own 
ability modifiers and can never benefit from item bonuses. 


HIT POINTS 


Your familiar has 5 Hit Points for each of your levels. 


> 


EQUIPMENT 
E 


SPELLS 
GT 


[^ 
HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 


f 3 TREASURE 


ADD ND 


TW 


SIZE 


Your familiar is Tiny. 


SENSES 


Your familiar has low-light vision and can gain additional 
senses from familiar abilities. It can communicate 
empathically with you as long as it’s within 1 mile of you, 
sharing emotions. It doesn’t understand or speak languages 
normally, but it can gain speech from a familiar ability. 


MOVEMENT 


Your familiar has either a Speed of 25 feet or a swim 
Speed of 25 feet (choose one upon gaining the familiar). 
It can gain other movement types from familiar abilities. 


FAMILIAR AND MASTER ABILITIES 


Each day, you channel your magic into two abilities, 
which can be either familiar or master abilities. If your 
familiar is an animal that naturally has one of these 
abilities (for instance, an owl has a fly Speed), you must 
select that ability. Your familiar can’t be an animal that 
naturally has more familiar abilities than your daily 
maximum familiar abilities. 


FAMILIAR ABILITIES 
Amphibious: It gains a swim Speed of 25 feet (or Speed of 
25 feet if it already has a swim Speed). 

Burrower: It gains a burrow Speed of 5 feet, allowing 
it to dig Tiny holes. 


Climber: It gains a climb Speed of 25 feet. 

Damage Avoidance: Choose one type of save. It takes 
no damage when it rolls a success on that type of save; 
this doesn’t prevent effects other than damage. 

Darkvision: It gains darkvision. 

Fast Movement: Increase one of the familiar’s Speeds 
from 25 feet to 40 feet. 

Flier: It gains a fly Speed of 25 feet. 

Kinspeech: It can understand and speak with animals 
of the same species. To select this, your familiar must be 
an animal, it must have the speech ability, and you must 
be at least 6th level. 

Lab Assistant: It can use your Quick Alchemy action. 
You must have Quick Alchemy, and your familiar must 
be in your space. This has the same cost and requirement 
as if you used it. It must have the manual dexterity 
ability to select this. 

Manual Dexterity: It can use up to two of its limbs as 
if they were hands to perform manipulate actions. 

Scent: It gains scent (imprecise, 30 feet). 

Speech: 
you know. 


It understands and speaks a language 


Master ABILITIES 
Cantrip Connection: You can prepare an additional 
cantrip or, if you have a repertoire, designate a cantrip to 
add to your repertoire every time you select this ability; 
you can retrain it but can’t otherwise change it. You must 
be able to prepare cantrips or add them to your repertoire 
to select this. 

Extra Reagents: Your familiar grows extra infused 
reagents on or in its body. You gain an additional batch 
of infused reagents. You must have the infused reagents 
ability to select this ability. 

Familiar Focus: Once per day, your familiar can use 2 
actions with the concentrate trait to restore 1 Focus Point 
to your focus pool, up to your usual maximum. You must 
have a focus pool to select this. 

Lifelink: If your familiar would be reduced to 0 HP by 
damage, as a reaction with the concentrate trait, you can 
take the damage. If you do, you take all the damage and 
your familiar takes none. However, special effects that 

would occur due to that damage (such as snake venom) 
still apply to your familiar. 

Spell Battery: You gain one additional spell slot at least 
3 levels lower than your highest-level spell slot; you 
must be able to cast 4th-level spells using spell slots to 
select this master ability. 

Spell Delivery: If your familiar is in your space, 
you can cast a spell with a range of touch, transfer 
its power to your familiar, and command the 

familiar to deliver the spell. If you do, the familiar 

uses its 2 actions for the round to move to a target 

of your choice and touch that target. If it doesn’t 

reach the target to touch it this turn, the spell has 
no effect. 


ARCHETYPES 


There are infinite possible character concepts, but you might find that the feats and skill 
choices from a single class aren’t sufficient to fully realize your character. Archetypes allow 
you to expand the scope of your character’s class. 


Applying an archetype requires you to select archetype feats 
instead of class feats. Start by finding the archetype that 
best fits your character concept, and select the archetype’s 
dedication feat using one of your class feat choices. Once 
you have the dedication feat, you can select any feat from 
that archetype in place of a class feat as long as you meet its 
prerequisites. The archetype feat you select is still subject 
to any selection restrictions on the class feat it replaces. For 
example, if you gained an ability at 6th level that granted 
you a 4th-level class feat with the dwarf trait, you could 
swap out that class feat only for an archetype feat of 4th 
level or lower with the dwarf trait. Archetype feats you 
gain in place of a class feat are called archetype class feats. 

Occasionally, an archetype feat works like a skill feat 
instead of a class feat. These archetype feats have the skill 
trait, and you select them in place of a skill feat, otherwise 
following the same rules above. These are not archetype 
class feats (for instance, to determine the number of Hit 
Points you gain from the Fighter Resiliency archetype feat). 

Each archetype’s dedication feat represents a certain 
portion of your character’s time and focus, so once you 
select a dedication feat for an archetype, you must satisfy 
its requirements before you can gain another dedication 
feat. Typically, you satisfy an archetype dedication feat 
by gaining a certain number of feats from the archetype’s 
list. You cannot retrain a dedication feat as long as you 
have any other feats from that archetype. 

Sometimes an archetype feat lets you gain another feat, 
such as the alchemist’s basic concoction. You must always 
meet the prerequisites of the feat you gain in this way. 

Two special kinds of archetypes are designated by the 
class and multiclass traits. The archetypes in this book 
are all multiclass archetypes. 


MULTICLASS ARCHETYPES 


Archetypes with the multiclass trait represent diversifying 
your training into another class’s specialties. You can’t 
select a multiclass archetype’s dedication feat if you are 
a member of the class of the same name (for instance, a 
fighter can’t select the Fighter Dedication feat). 


CLASS ARCHETYPES 


Archetypes with the class trait are a fundamental divergence 
from your class’s specialties, but one that exists within 
the context of your class. You can select a class archetype 
only if your class meets the criteria listed in the archetype’s 
prerequisites. Class archetypes always alter or replace some 
of a class’s static class features, in addition to any new feats 


they offer. It may be possible to take a class archetype at 
1st level if it alters or replaces some of the class’s initial 
class features. In that case, you must take that archetype’s 
dedication feat at 2nd level, and after that you proceed 
normally. You can never have more than one class archetype. 


SPELLCASTING ARCHETYPES 

Some archetypes grant you spellcasting abilities, albeit 
delayed compared to a character from a spellcasting class. In 
this book, the spellcasting archetypes are bard, cleric, druid, 
sorcerer, and wizard, but future books might introduce 
spellcasting archetypes that aren't multiclass archetypes. A 
spellcasting archetype allows you to use scrolls, staves, and 
wands in the same way that a member of a spellcasting 
class can, and the basic spellcasting feat counts as having a 
spellcasting class feature. 

Spellcasting archetypes always grant the ability to cast 
cantrips in their dedication, and then they have a basic 
spellcasting feat, an expert spellcasting feat, and a master 
spellcasting feat. These feats share their name with the 
archetype; for instance, the wizard's master spellcasting 
feat is called Master Wizard Spellcasting. All spell slots 
you gain from spellcasting archetypes have restrictions 
depending on the archetype; for instance, the bard 
archetype grants you spell slots you can use only to cast 
occult spells from your bard repertoire, even if you are 
a sorcerer with occult spells in your sorcerer repertoire. 

Basic Spellcasting Feat: Usually gained at 4th level, these 
feats grant a 1st-level spell slot. At 6th level, they grant you 
a 2nd-level spell slot, and if you have a spell repertoire, you 
can select one spell from your repertoire as a signature spell. 
At 8th level, they grant you a 3rd-level spell slot. Archetypes 
refer to these benefits as the *basic spellcasting benefits." 

Expert Spellcasting Feat: Usually taken at 12th level, these 
feats make you an expert in spell attack rolls and DCs of the 
appropriate magical tradition and grant you a 4th-level spell 
slot. If you have a spell repertoire, you can select a second 
spell from your repertoire as a signature spell. At 14th level, 
they grant you a Sth-level spell slot, and at 16th level, they 
grant you a 6th-level spell slot. Archetypes refer to these 
benefits as the *expert spellcasting benefits." 

Master Spellcasting Feat: Usually appearing at 18th level, 
these feats make you a master in spell attack rolls and DCs of 
the appropriate magical tradition and grant you a 7th-level 
spell slot. If you have a spell repertoire, you can select a third 
spell from your repertoire as a signature spell. At 20th level, 
they grant you an 8th-level spell slot. Archetypes refer to 
these benefits as the *master spellcasting benefits." 


LASSES 


EQUIPMENT 
ES 


SPELLS 
tr 


M 
. THE AGE DF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


EASURE 


CORE RULEBOOK 3j 


e 


ALCHEMIST 


You enjoy tinkering with alchemical formulas and 
substances in your spare time, and your studies have 
progressed beyond mere experimentation. 


MULTICLASS ALCHEMIST CHARACTERS 


The free alchemical items from the alchemist archetype 
are extremely useful to characters of any class. The 
following are just some of the possible combinations. 

* Barbarian alchemists can mix mutagens with 
their rage to ferocious effect. 

* Champion alchemists can focus on alchemical 
items that boost defenses and heal others, 
allowing their champion's reaction 

and lay on bands to go further. 

* Fighter alchemists can use their 

alchemy to gain additional options 

in situations where their usual 
tactics don't work. 

* Ranger alchemists focus on alchemy 

and snares, getting extra use out of 
their Crafting skill and supplying 
bombs for the bomb snare. 


* Rogue alchemists can combine a rogue's poison 
feats with free daily poisons, and bombs present an 
interesting way to sneak attack with various types 
of energy damage. 

* Spellcaster alchemists often use their alchemical 
items to take pressure off their repertoire or prepared 
spells. For instance, a wizard alchemist who can 
brew up darksight elixirs to grant darkvision can 
prepare another spell instead of darkvision. 


ALCHEMIST DEDICATION 

| ARCHETYPE | DEDICATION | MULTICLASS | 
Prerequisites Intelligence 14 

You put your alchemical interest into practice. You become 
trained in alchemical bombs and Crafting; if you were already 
trained in Crafting, you instead become trained in a skill of 
your choice. You become trained in alchemist class DC. 

You gain the alchemist's infused reagents class feature, 
gaining a number of reagents each day equal to your level. 
You also gain the Alchemical Crafting feat and four additional 
formulas for 1st-level alchemical items, as well as the ability 
to create free items during your daily preparations. Your 
advanced alchemy level is 1 and doesn't increase on its own. 

Special You cannot select another dedication feat until you 
have gained two other feats from the alchemist archetype. 


BASIC CONCOCTION 

| ARCHETYPE | 

Prerequisites Alchemist Dedication 

You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level alchemist feat. 


QUICK ALCHEMY 

| ARCHETYPE f 

Prerequisites Alchemist Dedication 

You gain the Quick Alchemy action (page 72). 


ADVANCED CONCOCTION 
Prerequisites Basic Concoction 
You gain one alchemist feat. For the purpose of meeting 
its prerequisites, your alchemist level is equal to half your 
character level. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you select it, you gain another alchemist feat. 


EXPERT ALCHEMY 

Prerequisites Alchemist Dedication, expert in Crafting 
Your advanced alchemy level increases to 3. At 10th level, it 
increases to 5. 


MASTER ALCHEMY 

| ARCHETYPE | 

Prerequisites Expert Alchemy, master in Crafting 
Your advanced alchemy level increases to 7. For every level you 
gain beyond 12th, your advanced alchemy level increases by 1. 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 12 


BARBARIAN 

There’s a rage deep inside you that sometimes breaks 
loose, granting you some of the might of a barbarian in 
addition to your other abilities. 


MULTICLASS BARBARIAN CHARACTERS 


The barbarian archetype is a great choice for characters 
that emphasize Strength and melee attacks more than 
usual for their class, as long as they can handle Rage’s 
spellcasting restriction. It’s especially good for characters 
looking to add more damage. 


BARBARIAN DEDICATION 
Prerequisites Strength 14, Constitution 14 
You become trained in Athletics; if you were already trained in 
Athletics, you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. 
You become trained in barbarian class DC. 

You can use the Rage action (page 84). 

Choose an instinct as you would if you were a barbarian. You 
have that instinct for all purposes and become bound by its 
anathema, but you don't gain any of the other abilities it grants. 

Special You cannot select another dedication feat until you 
have gained two other feats from the barbarian archetype. 


BARBARIAN RESILIENCY FEAT 4 
Prerequisites Barbarian Dedication, class granting no more 
Hit Points per level than 10 + your Constitution modifier 
You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each barbarian archetype 
class feat you have. As you continue selecting barbarian 
archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit 
Points in this way. 


FEAT 2 


BASIC FURY 
Prerequisites Barbarian Dedication 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level barbarian feat. 


ADVANCED FURY 
Prerequisites Basic Fury 
You gain one barbarian feat. For the purpose of meeting 
its prerequisites, your barbarian level is equal to half your 
character level. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you select it, you gain another barbarian feat. 


INSTINCT ABILITY 


Prerequisites Barbarian Dedication 
You gain the instinct ability for the instinct you chose for 
Barbarian Dedication. 


JUGGERNAUT'S FORTITUDE 


Prerequisites Barbarian Dedication, expert in Fortitude saves 
Your proficiency rank in Fortitude saves increases to master. 


FEAT 4 


FEAT6 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 12 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


SKILLS 


FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


an 


A muse has called you to dabble in occult lore, allowing 
you to cast a few spells. The deeper you delve, the more 
powerful your performances become. 


MULTICLASS BARD CHARACTERS 


The bard archetype grants powerful effects that tend to 
use actions; it’s a great choice if you have actions to spare. 


FEAT 2 


You cast spells like a bard and gain the Cast a Spell activity. You 
gain a spell repertoire with two common cantrips from the occult 
spell list or any other occult cantrips you learn or discover. You're 
trained in spell attack rolls and spell DCs for occult spells. Your 
key spellcasting ability for bard archetype spells is Charisma, and 
they are occult bard spells. You become trained in Occultism and 
Performance; for each of these skills in which you were already 
trained, you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. 
Choose a muse as you would if you were a bard. You have 
that muse for all purposes, allowing you to take that muse's 
feats, but you don't gain any of the other abilities it grants. 


Special You cannot select another dedication feat until you 
have gained two other feats from the bard archetype. 


BASIC BARD SPELLCASTING 
Prerequisites Bard Dedication 
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 219). Each time 
you gain a spell slot of a new level from the bard archetype, 
add a common occult spell or another spell you learned or 
discovered to your repertoire, of the appropriate spell level. 


BASIC MUSE’S WHISPERS FEAT 4 
Prerequisites Bard Dedication 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level bard feat. 


ADVANCED MUSE'S WHISPERS 
Prerequisites Basic Muses Whispers 
You gain one bard feat. For the purpose of meeting 
its prerequisites, your bard level is equal to half your 
character level. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you select it, you gain another bard feat. 


FEAT 4 


FEAT6 


COUNTER PERFORM 

Prerequisites Bard Dedication 

You gain the counter performance composition spell. 
If you dont already have one, you gain a focus 
pool of 1 Focus Point, which you can Refocus by 
engaging your muse. (For more on composition 
spells, see page 97) 


FEAT6 


INSPIRATIONAL PERFORMANCE FEAT 8 
| ARCHETYPE. | 
Prerequisites Bard Dedication 
You gain the inspire courage composition cantrip. 
OCCULT BREADTH FEAT 8 


| ARCHETYPE | 


Prerequisites Basic Bard Spellcasting 

Your repertoire expands, and you can cast more occult spells 
each day. Increase the number of spells in your repertoire and 
the number of spell slots you gain from bard archetype feats by 
1for each spell level other than your two highest bard spell slots. 


EXPERT BARD SPELLCASTING FEAT 12 


Prerequisites Basic Bard Spellcasting, master in Occultism 
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


MASTER BARD SPELLCASTING 


Prerequisites Expert Bard Spellcasting, legendary in Occultism 
You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


FEAT 18 


CHAMPION Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
You have sworn a solemn oath to your deity, who has you select it, you gain another champion feat. 
granted you champion powers to aid you in your cause. 


CHAMPION'S REACTION FEAT 6 
MULTICLASS CHAMPION CHARACTERS | ARCHETYPE | 
The champion archetype greatly improves defenses, Prerequisites Champion Dedication 
particularly armor. It's a great way for a character to gain You can use the champion's reaction associated with your cause. 
armor proficiency or a powerful defensive reaction. 
DIVINE ALLY FEAT 6 


CHAMPION DEDICATION FEAT 2 É 

Í ARCHETYPE | DEDICATION | MULTICLASS | |. . Prerequisites Champion Dedication 
Prerequisites Strength 14, Charisma 14 You gain a divine ally of your choice (page 108). 
Choose a deity and cause as you would if you were a 


EQUIPMENT 


champion. You become trained in light, medium, and DIVERSE ARMOR EXPERT FEAT14 |. e 

heavy armor. You become trained in Religion and * SPELLS 
your deity’s associated skill; for each of these skills Prerequisites Champion Dedication, expert in rt 

in which you were already trained, you instead . unarmored defense or one or more types of armor A 

become trained in a skill of your choice. You Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor, {4 HE AGE OF 
become trained in champion class DC. heavy armor, and unarmored defense increase to expert. 1- LOST OMENS 


You are bound by your deity’s anathema and s 
must follow the champion’s code and alignment 
requirements for your cause. You don't gain any 
other abilities from your choice of deity or cause. 

Special You cannot select another dedication 
feat until you have gained two other feats from the 
champion archetype. 


~ PLAYING THE 
E GAME 


BASIC DEVOTION FEAT 4 
Í ARCHETYPE. | 
Prerequisites Champion Dedication Ea A 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level champion feat. 


^ 
A Mae 


CHAMPION RESILIENCY FEAT 4 


ARCHETYPE | £ 

Prerequisites Champion Dedication, 
class granting no more Hit Points per level than 8 + 
your Constitution modifier 

You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each champion archetype class 

feat you have. As you continue selecting champion archetype 

class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit Points in this way. 


HEALING TOUCH FEAT 4 
Prerequisites Champion Dedication 

You gain the appropriate devotion spell for your cause (lay on 
hands for the paladin, redeemer, and liberator). If you don't 
already have one, you gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point, 
which you can Refocus by praying or serving your deity. (For 
more on devotion spells, see page 107.) 


ADVANCED DEVOTION FEAT 6 
Prerequisites Basic Devotion 

You gain one champion feat. For the purpose of meeting 
its prerequisites, your champion level is equal to half your 
character level. 


You are an ordained priest of your deity and have even 
learned how to cast a few divine spells. Though your main 
training lies elsewhere, your religious calling provides 
you divine gifts. 


MULTICLASS CLERIC CHARACTERS 


The cleric archetype is a great way to create a character 
of another class who’s a devotee of a particular deity. 
The many domains available to clerics of different deities 
present a variety of options for focus spells. 

* Alchemist clerics work well with the chirurgeon 
field, healing various ailments with either alchemy 
or spells. 

* Martial clerics are typically looking for a potent 
domain spell or some healing to use in a pinch. 

* Divine sorcerer clerics double down as the ultimate 
divine spellcasters. 

* Other spellcaster clerics diversify their options, 
becoming theurgic characters who combine two 
magical traditions. 


CLERIC DEDICATION 
| ARCHETYPE | DEDICATION | MULTICLASS | 
Prerequisites Wisdom 14 
You cast spells like a cleric. You gain access to the Cast a Spell 
activity. You can prepare two common cantrips each day from 
the divine spell list in this book or any other divine cantrips 
you learn or discover. You're trained in spell attack rolls and 
spell DCs for divine spells. Your key spellcasting ability for 
cleric archetype spells is Wisdom, and they are divine cleric 
spells. Choose a deity as you would if you were a cleric. You 
become bound by that deity's anathema. You become trained 
in Religion and your deity's associated skill; for each of these 
skills in which you were already trained, you instead become 
trained in a skill of your choice. You don’t gain any other 
abilities from your choice of deity. 

Special You cannot select another dedication feat until you 
have gained two other feats from the cleric archetype. 


BASIC CLERIC SPELLCASTING 
| ARCHETYPE | 

Prerequisites Cleric Dedication 
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 219). You can 
prepare your deity’s spells in your spell slots of the appropriate 
level from the cleric archetype. 


BASIC DOGMA 
Prerequisites Cleric Dedication 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level cleric feat. 


ADVANCED DOGMA 
Prerequisites Basic Dogma 
You gain one cleric feat. For the purpose of meeting 
its prerequisites, your cleric level is equal to half your 
character level. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you select it, you gain another cleric feat. 


DIVINE BREADTH 

| ARCHETYPE | 

Prerequisites Basic Cleric Spellcasting 
You can cast more divine spells each day. Increase the spell 
slots you gain from cleric archetype feats by 1 for each spell 
level other than your two highest druid spell slots. 


EXPERT CLERIC SPELLCASTING 


Prerequisites Basic Cleric Spellcasting, master in Religion 
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


MASTER CLERIC SPELLCASTING 

Prerequisites Expert Cleric Spellcasting, legendary in 
Religion 

You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


FEAT6 


FEAT8 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 18 


DRUID 


You have entered a druidic circle and learned a few of the 


order’s secrets, granting you primal power. 


MULTICLASS DRUID CHARACTERS 


The druid archetype can provide a bit of healing or 


elemental damage and can increase your utility in a 


natural environment with spells like speak with animals 


and meld into stone. 


FEAT 2 


DRUID DEDICATION 


| epication | MuLTICLASS | 
Prerequisites Wisdom 14 


You cast spells like a druid. You gain access to the Cast a Spell 
activity. You can prepare two common cantrips each day from 
the primal spell list in this book or any other primal cantrips you 
learn or discover. You're trained in spell attack rolls and spell 
DCs for primal spells. Your key spellcasting ability for druid 
archetype spells is Wisdom, and they are primal druid spells. 
You learn the Druidic language, and you are bound by the 


druid's anathema. 


Choose a druidic order. You become a member of that order 
and are also bound by its specific anathema, allowing you to take 
the order's feats. You become trained in Nature and your order's 
associated skill; for each of these skills in which you were already 
trained, you become trained in a skill of your choice. You don't 


gain any other abilities from your choice of order. 


Special You cannot select another dedication feat until you 


have gained two other feats from the druid archetype. 


BASIC DRUID SPELLCASTING 


FEAT 4 


| ARCHETYPE | 


Prerequisites Druid Dedication 


You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


BASIC WILDING 


FEAT 4 


ARCHETYPE | 


Prerequisites Druid Dedication 


You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level druid feat. 


ORDER SPELL 


FEAT 4 


ARCHETYPE | 


Prerequisites Druid Dedication 


You gain the initial order spell from your order. If you don't 


already have one, you gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point, which / 
you can Refocus by being one with nature. (For more on order j 


spells, see page 131.) 


ADVANCED WILDING 


FEAT6 


| ARCHETYPE | 


Prerequisites Basic Wilding 


You gain one druid feat. For the purpose of meeting 
its prerequisites, your druid level is equal to half your 


character level. 


Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 


you select it, you gain another druid feat. 


PRIMAL BREADTH FEAT 8 


| ARCHETYPE | 
Prerequisites Basic Druid Spellcasting 


Increase the spell slots you gain from druid archetype feats by 1 
for each spell level other than your two highest druid spell slots. 


EXPERT DRUID SPELLCASTING FEAT 12 


| ARCHETYPE | 
Prerequisites Basic Druid Spellcasting, master in Nature 


You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


MASTER DRUID SPELLCASTING FEAT 18 


Í ARCHETYPE | 
Prerequisites Expert Druid Spellcasting, legendary in Nature 


You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


m >- 
| CLASSES 


EQUIPMENT 


FIGHTER 


MULTICLASS FIGHTER CHARACTERS 


* Barbarian fighters can combine their talents with 
two-handed weapons with some of the fighter’s 
two-handed feats to devastating effect. 

* Champion fighters focus on a style of combat 
exemplified by their deity. A shield-using champion 
benefits from the best of both worlds in shield feats. 

* Monk fighters are great at combining unusual 

weapon styles. For instance, a monks 

isn’t hindered by a restriction to 

keep one hand free, because they 

want to punch you with that 

hand anyway. 


You have spent time learning the art of warfare, increasing 
your skill with martial arms and at wearing armor. With 
further training, you can become a true combat specialist. 


The fighter archetype grants access to great feats 
for characters focusing on any combat style, and it's 
particularly helpful for characters looking to diversify their 
offensive abilities or focus on more powerful weapons. 


* Ranger fighters can either specialize in archery 
or use their fighter feats to pick up an unusual 
combat style combination. 

* Rogue fighters can make good use of fighter's free 
hand, two-weapon fighting, or archery feats. 

* Spellcaster fighters benefit greatly from the additional 
weapon proficiencies, and fighter is a solid choice for 
any spellcaster of a particularly martial bent. 


FIGHTER DEDICATION FEAT 2 


Prerequisites Strength 14, Dexterity 14 
You become trained in simple weapons and martial weapons. 
You become trained in your choice of Acrobatics or Athletics; 
if you are already trained in both of these skills, you instead 
become trained in a skill of your choice. You become trained 
in fighter class DC. 

Special You cannot select another dedication feat until you 
have gained two other feats from the fighter archetype. 


BASIC MANEUVER FEAT 4 
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level fighter feat. 


FIGHTER RESILIENCY FEAT 4 
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication, class granting no more Hit 
Points per level than 8 + your Constitution modifier 
You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each fighter archetype 
class feat you have. As you continue selecting fighter 
archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit 
Points in this way. 


OPPORTUNIST FEAT 4 
| ARCHETYPE | 

Prerequisites Fighter Dedication 

You gain the Attack of Opportunity reaction, found on 
page 142. 


ADVANCED MANEUVER FEAT 6 
| ARCHETYPE | 
Prerequisites Basic Maneuver 
You gain a fighter feat. For the purpose of meeting its 
prerequisites, your fighter level is equal to half your 
character level. 
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you select it, you gain another fighter feat. 


DIVERSE WEAPON EXPERT 

Prerequisites Fighter Dedication, expert in any kind of 
weapon or unarmed attack 

Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons and martial 

weapons increase to expert, and your proficiency rank for 

advanced weapons increases to trained. 


FEAT 12 


MONK 


Monastic training has taught you martial arts and allowed 
you to hone your mind, body, and spirit to new heights. 


MULTICLASS MONK CHARACTERS 


The monk archetype is a strong choice for any character 
that fights unarmored or with unarmed attacks. 

* Barbarian monks with the animal instinct can 
combine the barbarian’s excellent unarmed damage 
with the monk’s diverse unarmed special abilities. 

* Champion monks are perfect for champions of 
Irori or other deities who favor unarmed attacks. 

* Fighter monks can supplement free-hand fighting 
and add mobility to the fighter's toolkit. 

* Rogue monks are incredibly effective because 
stances grant some of the best agile finesse attacks 
and flurry gives more sneak attacks. 

* Spellcaster monks can fight with a free hand and 
still use material components to cast spells. 


MONK DEDICATION 

Í Archetype | pepicanion | mumcuass | 
Prerequisites Strength 14, Dexterity 14 
You become trained in unarmed attacks and gain the 
powerful fist class feature (page 156). You become 
trained in your choice of Acrobatics or Athletics; if 
you are already trained in both of these skills, you 
become trained in a skill of your choice. You become — - 
trained in monk class DC. 
Special You can't select another dedication feat until you have 

gained two other feats from the monk archetype. 


BASIC KATA 
Prerequisites Monk Dedication 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level monk feat. 


MONK RESILIENCY 

Prerequisites Monk Dedication, class granting no more Hit 
Points per level than 8 * your Constitution modifier 

You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each monk archetype class 

feat you have. As you continue selecting monk archetype class 

feats, you continue to gain additional Hit Points in this way. 


ADVANCED KATA FEAT6 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


You gain one monk feat. For the purpose of meeting its 
prerequisites, your monk level is equal to half your character level. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you select it, you gain another monk feat. 


MONK MOVES 


FEAT8 


| ARCHETYPE 


Prerequisites Monk Dedication 


You gain a +10-foot status bonus to your Speed when you're 
not wearing armor. 


MONK'S FLURRY 


Prerequisites Monk Dedication 
You gain the Flurry of Blows action (page 156). 


PERFECTION'S PATH 


FEAT 10 


FEAT 12 


| ARCHETYPE | 


Prerequisites Monk Dedication, expert in at least one 
saving throw 


Choose one saving throw (Fortitude, Reflex, or Will) in which 
you are an expert. Your proficiency rank in the chosen saving 
throw increases to master. 


gs. 


M “yl 


IPMENT 


SPELLS 


- THE AGE OF 
~ LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
© GAME 


Ji 
_ MASTERING 


i 


RANGER 


You have studied hunting, tracking, and wilderness 
survival, adding a ranger’s tools to your skill set. 


MULTICLASS RANGER CHARACTERS 


The ranger archetype has access to excellent options to 
improve a character’s monster knowledge and survival 
skills, but ranger is of particular interest to any character 
wanting to become a dedicated archer. 

* Alchemist rangers can add snares to their daily 
free items, benefiting from a strong Crafting 
modifier, and their Intelligence makes them 
exceptional with monster knowledge feats. The 
ranger archetype is also useful to bombers who 
want to alternate with in bow attacks. 


e Champion rangers are particularly fitting for 
deities who connect thematically to nature or have 
a bow as their favored weapon. (Or, in the case of 
Erastil, both!) 

* Fighter rangers are among the most fearsome 
archers, combining the best archery feats from 
both classes to create a fighting style unique to 
each fighter ranger. 

* Rogue rangers make excellent snipers or ranged 
skirmishers, and snares let them be on the other 
side of traps for a change. 

* Spellcaster rangers benefit greatly from ranger's 
feat support, backing up their spells with ranged 
weapon attacks. Druids have the most thematic 
overlap with rangers among the spellcasters, 
allowing you to create a true master of 
the wilderness. 


RANGER DEDICATION 
| ARCHETYPE | DEDICATION | MuLTICLASS | 
Prerequisites Dexterity 14 
You become trained in Survival; if you were already trained 
in Survival, you instead become trained in another skill of 
your choice. You become trained in ranger class DC. 
You can use the Hunt Prey action (page 168). 
Special You cannot select another dedication 
feat until you have gained two other feats from the 
ranger archetype. 


BASIC HUNTER'S TRICK 
Prerequisites Ranger Dedication 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level ranger feat. 


RANGER RESILIENCY FEAT 4 

Prerequisites Ranger Dedication, class granting no more Hit 
Points per level than 8 + your Constitution modifier 

You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each ranger archetype 

class feat you have. As you continue selecting ranger 

archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit 

Points in this way. 


ADVANCED HUNTER'S TRICK 
Prerequisites Basic Hunter's Trick 
You gain one ranger feat. For the purpose of meeting 
its prerequisites, your ranger level is equal to half your 
character level. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you select it, you gain another ranger feat. 


MASTER SPOTTER 
Í ARCHETYPE f 
Prerequisites Ranger Dedication, expert in Perception 
Your proficiency rank in Perception increases to master. 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 6 


FEAT 12 


ROGUE 

You’ve learned to sneak, steal, and disable traps. With time 
and luck, you’ll become capable of moving through the 
shadows, striking unseen, and escaping without notice. 


MULTICLASS ROGUE CHARACTERS 


Nearly any character can benefit from the many skills 
and tricks the rogue archetype grants. 

* Alchemist rogues can use the rogue’s Poison 
Weapon to great effect with their daily poisons, 
and sneak attack is a nice boost to bomb damage. 

* Barbarian rogues can become masters in every 
save and diversify their skills. 

* Champion rogues add damage from sneak attack 
while protecting their flanking partners from harm. 

* Fighter rogues combine the fighter's accuracy with 
extra damage, a deadly combination for archers or 
finesse fighters. 

* Monk rogues have great synergy, since many stances 
grant powerful Strikes that work with sneak attack. 

* Ranger rogues benefit from the shared focus on 
trailing foes and catching them flat-footed. The 
flurry edge can get you many sneak attacks, and the 
precision edge doubles down on precision damage. 

* Spellcaster rogues use the rogue multiclass to shore 
up skills or to pick up tricky rogue feats 
like Mobility to help keep them safe. —S 


ROGUE DEDICATION 


| archetype | DEDICATION | wutricuass | 


Prerequisites Dexterity 14 


You gain a skill feat and the rogue's surprise attack class feature 
(page 181). You become trained in light armor. In addition, you 
become trained in Stealth or Thievery plus one skill of your 
choice; if you are already trained in both Stealth and Thievery, 
you become trained in an additional skill of your choice. You 
become trained in rogue class DC. 

Special You cannot gain another dedication feat until you 
have gained two other feats from the rogue archetype. 


BASIC TRICKERY FEAT 4 


Í ARCHETYPE | 


Prerequisites Rogue Dedication 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level rogue feat. 


SNEAK ATTACKER 
Prerequisites Rogue Dedication 
You gain the sneak attack class feature (page 181), except 
it deals 1d4 damage, increasing to 1d6 at 6th level. You 
dont increase the number of dice as you gain levels. 


FEAT 4 


ADVANCED TRICKERY FEAT6 


Í ARCHETYPE | 


Prerequisites Basic Trickery 


You gain one rogue feat. For the purpose of meeting 


its prerequisites, your rogue level is equal to half your 
character level. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you select it, you gain another rogue feat. 


SKILL MASTERY 


J ARCHETYPE | 

Prerequisites Rogue Dedication, trained in at least one skill 
and expert in at least one skill 

Increase your proficiency rank in one of your skills from 

expert to master and in another of your skills from trained to 

expert. You gain a skill feat associated with one of the skills 

you chose. 

Special You can select this feat up to five times. 


UNCANNY DODGE 

| ARCHETYPE | 

Prerequisites Rogue Dedication 
You gain the deny advantage class feature (page 181). 


EVASIVENESS FEAT 12 
| ARCHETYPE | 

Prerequisites Rogue Dedication, expert in Reflex saves 

Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to master. 


FEAT8 


FEAT 10 


EQUIPMENT 
m 
SPELLS 
t 

[^ 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


E 


PLAYING THE 
-GAME 

-GAME 

MAS 


AG 
ASURE 


SORCERER 


You coax the magic power in your blood to manifest, 
accessing magic others don’t expect you to have. 


MULTICLASS SORCERER CHARACTERS 


The sorcerer archetype is a method for anyone to pick up 
commonly useful spells, such as invisibility and haste. 


SORCERER DEDICATION FEAT 2 
Prerequisites Charisma 14 
Choose a bloodline. You become trained in the bloodline's 
two skills; for each of these skills in which you were already 
trained, you become trained in a skill of your choice. 

You cast spells like a sorcerer. You gain access to the Cast 
a Spell activity. You gain a spell repertoire with two common 
cantrips from the spell list associated with your bloodline, from 
the spells granted by your bloodline, or any other cantrips of 
that tradition you learn or discover. You're trained in spell 
attack rolls and spell DCs for your tradition’s spells. Your key 
spellcasting ability for sorcerer archetype spells is Charisma, 


and they are sorcerer spells of your bloodline's tradition. You 

don't gain any other abilities from your choice of bloodline. 
Special You cannot select another dedication feat until you 

have gained two other feats from the sorcerer archetype. 


BASIC SORCERER SPELLCASTING FEAT 4 


Prerequisites Sorcerer Dedication 

You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 219). Each time you 
gain a spell slot of a new level from the sorcerer archetype, add a 
spell of the appropriate spell level to your repertoire: a common 
spell of your bloodlines tradition, one of your bloodlines granted 
spells, or another spell you have learned or discovered. 


BASIC BLOOD POTENCY 


Prerequisites Sorcerer Dedication 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level sorcerer feat. 


BASIC BLOODLINE SPELL 

Prerequisites Sorcerer Dedication 
You gain your bloodline's initial bloodline spell. If you don't 
already have one, you also gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point, 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


=. which you can Refocus without any special effort. (For 


more on bloodline spells, see page 194.) 


| à ADVANCED BLOOD POTENCY 
><) ARCHETYPE | 

I | Prerequisites Basic Blood Potency 
1 You gain one sorcerer feat. For the purpose of 


FEAT 6 


prerequisites, your sorcerer level is half your 
character level. 
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each 
time you do, you gain another sorcerer feat. 


BLOODLINE BREADTH 

|. ARCHETYPE | 

Prerequisites Basic Sorcerer Spellcasting 
Your repertoire expands, and you can cast more spells of your 
bloodline's tradition each day. Increase the number of spells 
in your repertoire and number of spell slots you gain from 
sorcerer archetype feats by 1 for each spell level other than 
your two highest sorcerer spell slots. 


EXPERT SORCERER SPELLCASTING 

Prerequisites Basic Sorcerer Spellcasting; master in Arcana, 
Nature, Occultism, or Religion, depending on bloodline 

You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


MASTER SORCERER SPELLCASTING 

Prerequisites Expert Sorcerer Spellcasting; legendary in Arcana, 
Nature, Occultism, or Religion, depending on bloodline 

You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


FEAT8 


FEAT 12 


FEAT 18 


WIZARD 


You have dabbled in the arcane arts and, through discipline 
and academic study, learned how to cast a few spells. 


MULTICLASS WIZARD CHARACTERS 


The wizard archetype grants versatile prepared spells, 
perfect for characters looking to add some extra utility. 


slots you gain from wizard archetype feats by 1 for each spell 
level other than your two highest wizard spell slots. 7 
mre 


EXPERT WIZARD SPELLCASTING FEAT 12 js ; 


| ARCHETYPE | i 
Prerequisites Basic Wizard Spellcasting, master in Arcana | 
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


FEAT 18 


WIZARD DEDICATION FEAT 2 


Í ARCHETYPE | DEDICATION | MULTICLASS | 


Prerequisites Intelligence 14 


MASTER WIZARD SPELLCASTING 


Prerequisites Expert Wizard Spellcasting, legendary in Arcana 


You cast spells like a wizard, gaining a spellbook with four 
common arcane cantrips of your choice. You gain the Cast a 
Spell activity. You can prepare two cantrips each day from 
your spellbook. You're trained in arcane spell attack rolls 
and spell DCs. Your key spellcasting ability for wizard 
archetype spells is Int, and they are arcane wizard 


spells. You become trained in Arcana; if you were m 


already trained in Arcana, you instead become trained 
in a skill of your choice. Select one arcane school of magic; 
you dont gain any abilities from your choice of school. 

Special You cant select another dedication feat until you 
have gained two other feats from the wizard archetype. 


ARCANE SCHOOL SPELL FEAT 4 
Prerequisite Wizard Dedication 

You gain your school's initial school spell. If you don't already 
have one, you gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point, which you 
can Refocus by studying. 


BASIC ARCANA 
Prerequisites Wizard Dedication 
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level wizard feat of your choice. 


BASIC WIZARD SPELLCASTING 
ETT 

Prerequisites Wizard Dedication 
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 219). Each time 
you gain a spell slot of a new level from the wizard archetype, 


add two common spells of that level to your spellbook. 


ADVANCED ARCANA FEAT 6 
Prerequisites Basic Arcana 
You gain one wizard feat. For the purpose of meeting 
its prerequisites, your wizard level is equal to half your 
character level. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you select it, you gain another wizard feat. 


ARCANE BREADTH 


FEAT 4 


FEAT 4 


FEAT8 


| AncuervE | 


Prerequisites Basic Wizard Spellcasting 


You can cast more arcane spells each day. Increase the spell 


m 


EQUIPMENT 
E 


You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 219). 


p 


—- 


CHAPTER 4: SKILLS 


While your character’s ability scores represent their raw talent and potential, skills represent 


their training and experience at performing certain tasks. Each skill is keyed to one of your 


character’s ability scores and used for an array of related actions. Your character’s expertise 
in a skill comes from several sources, including their background and class. In this chapter, 


you'll learn about skills, their scope, and the actions they can be used for. 


A character’s acumen in skills can come from all sorts of training, from practicing 
acrobatic tricks to studying academic topics to rehearsing a performing art. When 
you create your character and as they advance in level, you have flexibility as to 
which skills they become better at and when. Some classes depend heavily on 
certain skills—such as the alchemist’s reliance on Crafting—but for most classes, 
you can choose whichever skills make the most sense for your character’s theme and 
backstory at 1st level, then use their adventure and downtime experiences to inform 
how their skills should improve as your character levels up. 

A character gains training in certain skills at 1st level: typically two from their 
background, a small number of predetermined skills from their class, and several skills 
of your choice granted by their class. This training increases your proficiency ranks for 
those skills to trained instead of untrained and lets you use more of the skills’ actions. 
Sometimes you might become trained in the same skill from multiple sources, such as if 
your background granted training in Crafting and you took the alchemist class, which 
also grants training in Crafting. Each time after the first that you’d become trained 
in a given skill, you instead allocate the trained proficiency to any other skill of your 
choice—though if the skill is a Lore skill, the new skill must also be a Lore skill. 


KEY ABILITY 

Each skill is tied to a key ability. You add your modifier for this ability to checks 
and DCs when using that skill. For example, skulking about the shadows of a city at 
night with Stealth uses your Dexterity modifier, navigating the myriad personalities 
and power plays of court politics with Society uses your Intelligence modifier, and 
so on. The key ability for each skill is listed on Table 4-1: Skills, Key Abilities, and 
Actions on page 235 and also appears in parentheses following the skill’s name 
in the descriptions on the following pages. If the GM deems it appropriate for a 
certain situation, however, they might have you use a different ability modifier for 
a skill check or when determining your skill DC. 


SKILL ACTIONS 

The actions you can perform with a given skill are sorted into those you can use 
untrained and those that require you to be trained in the skill, as shown on Table 
4-1: Skills, Key Abilities, and Actions (page 235). The untrained and trained actions 
of each skill appear in separate sections within the skill’s description. 

Anyone can use a skill’s untrained actions, but you can use trained actions only 
if you have a proficiency rank of trained or better in that skill. A circumstance, 
condition, or effect might bar you from a skill action regardless of your proficiency 
rank, and sometimes using a skill in a specific situation might require you to have a 
higher proficiency rank than what is listed on the table. For instance, even though 
a barbarian untrained in Arcana could identify a construct with a lucky roll using 
Arcana to Recall Knowledge, the GM might decide that Recalling Knowledge 
to determine the spells used to create such a construct is beyond the scope of 
the barbarian’s anecdotal knowledge. The GM decides whether a task requires a 
particular proficiency rank. 


IMPROVING SKILLS 

As your character advances 

in level, there are two main 
ways their skills improve: skill 
increases and skill feats. Your 
class lists the levels at which you 
gain each of these improvements. 


SKILL INCREASES 

Skill increases improve your 
proficiency in skills of your 
choice. You can use these 
increases to become trained 

in new skills or increase your 
proficiency rank in skills you're 
trained in (from trained to 
expert at any level, expert to 
master at 7th level or higher, 
and master to legendary at 15th 
level or higher). Unlike when 
you first become trained at a 
skill, if two different abilities 
would make you an expert, 
master, or legendary in a skill, 
you don't get to choose a second 
skill to become expert in—the 
redundant benefit simply has 
no effect. 


SKILL FEATS 

Skill feats are a type of general 
feat that often grant you a 

new way to use a skill or make 
you better at using a skill in a 
particular way. Skill feats always 
have the skill trait. These feats 
appear in Chapter 5. 


Slee ne T mco | 


e vx = m (DII ep ae ue 2m * 
HFIN CORE RULEBOOK 3 
—— — — er wr | 


SKILL CHECKS AND SKILL DCS 
When you’re actively using a skill, often by performing 
one of its actions, you might attempt a skill check: rolling 
a d20 and adding your skill modifier. To determine this 
modifier, add your ability modifier for the skill's key ability, 
your proficiency bonus for the skill, and any other bonuses 
and penalties. 


Skill modifier = modifier of the skill's key ability 
score + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties 


When writing down the modifier on your character 
sheet, you should write down only the numbers that always 
apply—typically just your ability modifier and proficiency 
bonus at 1st level. At higher levels, you may wear or use 
items to improve your skills with item bonuses pretty much 
all the time; you should write those down, too. 

The GM sets the DC of a skill check, using the guidelines 
in Chapter 10: Game Mastering. The most important DCs 
to remember are the five simple skill DCs below. 


Task Difficulty Simple DC 


Untrained 10 
Trained 15 
Expert 20 
Master 30 
Legendary 40 


When someone or something tests your skill, they 
attempt a check against your skill DC, which is equal to 10 
plus your skill modifier. A skill DC works like any other DC 
to determine the effect of an opposing creature’s skill action. 

See page 444 in Chapter 9: Playing the Game for more 
information about modifiers, bonuses, and penalties. 


ARMOR AND SKILLS 


Some armor imposes a penalty on specific skill checks and 
DCs. If a creature is wearing armor that imparts a skill 
penalty, that penalty is applied to the creature’s Strength- 
and Dexterity-based skill checks and skill DCs, unless the 
action has the attack trait. Check penalties from armor are 
detailed on page 274 in Chapter 6: Equipment. 


SECRET CHECKS 

Sometimes you won’t know whether you succeed at a skill 
check. If an action has the secret trait, the GM rolls the check 
for you and informs you of the effect without revealing the 
result of the roll or the degree of success. The GM rolls 
secret checks when your knowledge about the outcome is 
imperfect, like when you’re searching for a hidden creature 
or object, attempting to deceive someone, translating a 
tricky bit of ancient text, or remembering some piece of lore. 
This way, you as the player don’t know things that your 
character wouldn’t. This rule is the default for actions with 
the secret trait, but the GM can choose not to use secret 
checks if they would rather some or all rolls be public. 


EXPLORATION AND DOWNTIME ACTIVITIES 


Some skill activities have the exploration or downtime 
trait. Exploration activities usually take a minute or more, 
while downtime activities may take a day or more. They 
usually can’t be used during an encounter, though the GM 
might bend this restriction. If you’re not sure whether you 
have the time to use one of these activities, ask your GM. 


GENERAL SKILL ACTIONS 
General skill actions are skill actions that can be used 
with multiple different skills. When you use a general skill 
action, you might use your modifier from any skill that lists 
it as one of the skill’s actions, depending on the situation. 


General Skill Action Proficiency Page 
Decipher Writing Trained 234 
Earn Income Trained 236 
Identify Magic Trained 238 
Learn a Spell Trained 238 
Recall Knowledge *> Untrained 238 
Subsist Untrained 240 


DECIPHER WRITING [TRAINED] 


When you encounter particularly archaic or esoteric texts, 
the GM might require you to Decipher the Writing before 
you can understand it. You must be trained in the relevant 
skill to Decipher Writing. Arcana is typically used for 
writing about magic or science, Occultism for esoteric texts 
about mysteries and philosophy, Religion for scripture, 
and Society for coded messages or archaic documents. 


DECIPHER WRITING 

J CONCENTRATE | EXPLORATION | SECRET | 

You attempt to decipher complicated writing or literature on an 

obscure topic. This usually takes 1 minute per page of text, but 

might take longer (typically an hour per page for decrypting 

ciphers or the like). The text must be in a language you can 

read, though the GM might allow you to attempt to decipher 

text written in an unfamiliar language using Society instead. 
The DC is determined by the GM based on the state or 

complexity of the document. The GM might have you roll one 

check for a short text or a check for each section of a larger text. 

Critical Success You understand the true meaning of the text. 

Success You understand the true meaning of the text. If it was 
a coded document, you know the general meaning but might 
not have a word-for-word translation. 

Failure You can't understand the text and take a -2 circumstance 
penalty to further checks to decipher it. 

Critical Failure You believe you understand the text on that 
page, but you have in fact misconstrued its message. 


Sample Decipher Tasks 
Trained entry-level philosophy treatise 
Expert complex code, such as a cipher 
Master spymaster's code or advanced research notes 


TABLE 4-1: SKILLS, KEY ABILITIES, AND ACTIONS 


Acrobatics 


Arcana 


Athletics 


Crafting 


Deception 


Diplomacy 


Intimidation 


Lore 


Medicine 


Nature 


Occultism 


Performance 
Religion 


Society 


Stealth 


Survival 


Thievery 


Key Ability 
Dexterity 


Intelligence 


Strength 


Intelligence 


Charisma 


Charisma 


Charisma 


Intelligence 


Wisdom 


Wisdom 


Intelligence 


Charisma 
Wisdom 


Intelligence 


Dexterity 


Wisdom 


Dexterity 


This skill action can be used only during downtime. 
E This skill action is used during exploration. 


®This is a general skill action, with a description appearing on pages 234-240 instead of under the entries for the various 
skills it's used for. Decipher Writing appears on page 234, Earn Income on page 236, Identify Magic and Learn a Spell 


on page 238, and Subsist on page 240. 


Untrained Actions 
Balance > 

Tumble Through *> 
Recall Knowledge? +> 


Climb > 

Force Open *> 
Grapple > 

High Jump +> 

Long Jump +> 
Shove +> 

Swim 9 

Trip > 

Recall Knowledge? +> 
Repair* 


Create a Diversion > 
Impersonate* 

Lie 

Gather Information* 
Make an Impression* 
Request > 

Coerce* 

Demoralize +> 

Recall Knowledge +> 
Administer First Aid > 
Recall Knowledge: +> 


Command an Animal > 
Recall Knowledge +> 
Recall Knowledge? +> 


Perform > 
Recall Knowledge: +> 


Recall Knowledge? +> 
Subsist”. 9 

Conceal an Object > 
Hide 9 

Sneak 9 

Sense Direction* 
Subsist”. 9 

Palm an Object +> 
Steal 9 


gm eite om 


SKILLS 
[ium 


Trained Actions 
Maneuver in Flight > 
Squeeze® 

Borrow an Arcane Spell* 
Decipher Writing? 8 
Identify Magic* o 

Learn a Spell 8 


Disarm *$ 

Craft? » 

Earn Income? € . THE AGE OF 
Identify Alchemy* ‘LOST OMENS 
Feint > 


Earn Income? 6 
Treat Disease? 
Treat Poison > 
Treat Wounds* 
Identify Magic* o 
Learn a Spell 8 
Decipher Writing? 8 
Identify Magic* o 
Learn a Spell* 8 
Earn Income? 8 
Decipher Writing ° 
Identify Magic* o 
Learn a Spell* 8 
Create Forgery” 
Decipher Writing? 8 


Cover Tracks* 

Track* 

Disable a Device > 
Pick a Lock 99 


ail 


q Pa HFINDER 


——? 


— —ÀÀ vae E o Ca ai 


© CORE RULEBOOK 4 


EXTRA PREPARATION 

When Earning Income, you might be able to spend days 
of downtime to prepare for your task, which adjusts the 
DC of the skill check. This might involve rehearsing a play, 
studying a topic, and so on. The GM determines how long 
preparation takes and how much the DC changes. This is 
most useful when you're trying a task that's higher level 
than you; otherwise such tasks have an increased DC! 


ENDING OR INTERRUPTING TASKS 

When a task you're doing is complete, or if you stop 
in the middle of one, you normally have to find a new 
task if you want to keep Earning Income. For instance, 
if you quit your job working at the docks, you'll need to 
find another place of employment instead of picking up 
where you left off. This usually takes 1 day or more of 
downtime looking for leads on new jobs. 

However, you might pause a task due to an adventure or 
event that wouldn't prevent you from returning to the old 
job later. The GM might decide that you can pick up where 
you left off, assuming the task hasn't been completed by 
others in your absence. Whether you roll a new skill check 
when you resume is also up to the GM. Generally speaking, 
if you had a good initial roll and want to keep it, you can, 
but if you had a bad initial roll, you cant try for a better one 
by pausing to do something else. If your statistics changed 
during the break-usually because you leveled up while 
adventuring—you can attempt a new check. 


TABLE 4-2: INCOME EARNED 


Task Level Failure Trained 
0 1cp 5 cp 
1 2 cp 2 sp 
2 4 cp 3 sp 
3 8cp 5 sp 
4 {sp 7 sp 
5 2 sp 9 sp 
6 3 sp 18p, 5 sp 
7 4 sp 2 gp 
8 5 sp 2 gp, 5sp 

9 6 sp 3 gp 
10 7sp 4 gp 
11 8 sp 5 gp 
12 9 sp 6 gp 
13 1gp 7 gp 
14 18p, 5 sp 8 gp 
15 2 gp 10 gp 
16 2 gp, 5sp 13 gp 
17 3 gp 15 gp 
18 4 gp 20 gp 
19 6 gp 30 gp 
20 8 gp 40 gp 
20 (critical success) - 50 gp 


Legendary esoteric planar text written in metaphor by an 
ancient celestial 


EARN INCOME [TRAINED] 


You can use a skill—typically Crafting, Lore, or 
Performance—to earn money during downtime. You 
must be trained in the skill to do so. This takes time to 
set up, and your income depends on your proficiency 
rank and how lucrative a task you can find. Because this 
process requires a significant amount of time and involves 
tracking things outside the progress of adventures, it 
won't come up in every campaign. 

In some cases, the GM might let you use a different skill 
to Earn Income through specialized work. Usually, this is 
scholarly work, such as using Religion in a monastery to 
study old texts—but giving sermons at a church would still 
fall under Performance instead of Religion. You also might 
be able to use physical skills to make money, such as using 
Acrobatics to perform feats in a circus or Thievery to pick 
pockets. If you're using a skill other than Crafting, Lore, or 
Performance, the DC tends to be significantly higher. 


EARN INCOME 

EXTUS 

You use one of your skills to make money during downtime. 
The GM assigns a task level representing the most lucrative 
job available. You can search for lower-level tasks, with the 
GM determining whether you find any. Sometimes you can 
attempt to find better work than the initial offerings, though 
this takes time and requires using the Diplomacy skill to 


Expert Master Legendary 
5 cp 5cp 5 cp 
2 sp 2 sp 2 sp 
3 sp 3 sp 3 sp 
5 sp 5 sp 5 sp 
8 sp 8 sp 8 sp 
1gp 1gp 1gp 
2 gp 2 gp 2 gp 

2 gp, 5 sp 2 gp, 5 sp 2 gp, 5 sp 
3 gp 3 gp 3 gp 
4 gp 4 gp 4 gp 
5 gp 6 gp 6 gp 
6 gp 8 gp 8 gp 
8 gp 10 gp 10 gp 

10 gp 15 gp 15 gp 
15 gp 20 gp 20 gp 

20 gp 28 gp 28 gp 

25 gp 36 gp 40 gp 

30 gp 45 gp 55 gp 

45 gp 70 gp 90 gp 

60 gp 100 gp 130 gp 

75 gp 150 gp 200 gp 


90 gp 175 gp 300 gp 


Gather Information, doing some research, or socializing. 
When you take on a job, the GM secretly sets the DC of your 

skill check. After your first day of work, you roll to determine 

your earnings. You gain an amount of income based on your 
result, the task’s level, and your proficiency rank (as listed on 

Table 4-2: Income Earned). 

You can continue working at the task on subsequent days 
without needing to roll again. For each day you spend after 
the first, you earn the same amount as the first day, up until 
the task’s completion. The GM determines how long you can 
work at the task. Most tasks last a week or two, though some 
can take months or even years. 

Critical Success You do outstanding work. Gain the amount of 
currency listed for the task level + 1 and your proficiency rank. 

Success You do competent work. Gain the amount of currency 
listed for the task level and your proficiency rank. 

Failure You do shoddy work and get paid the bare minimum 
for your time. Gain the amount of currency listed in the 
failure column for the task level. The GM will likely reduce 
how long you can continue at the task. 

Critical Failure You earn nothing for your work and are fired 
immediately. You can't continue at the task. Your reputation 
suffers, potentially making it difficult for you to find 
rewarding jobs in that community in the future. 


Sample Earn Income Tasks 

These examples use Alcohol Lore to work in a bar or 
Legal Lore to perform legal work. 
Trained bartend, do legal research 
Expert curate drink selection, present minor court cases 
Master run a large brewery, present important court cases 
Legendary run an international brewing franchise, present 

a case in Hell's courts 


Crartinc Goons ron THE Maret [Cnarrinc] 

Using Crafting, you can work at producing common 
items for the market. It’s usually easy to find work making 
basic items whose level is 1 or 2 below your settlement’s 
level (see Earn Income on page 504). Higher-level tasks 
represent special commissions, which might require you to 
Craft a specific item using the Craft downtime activity and 
sell it to a buyer at full price. These opportunities don’t 
occur as often and might have special requirements—or 
serious consequences if you disappoint a prominent client. 


Practice A Trane (Lore) 

You apply the practical benefits of one of your Lore 
specialties during downtime by practicing your trade. 
This is most effective for Lore specialties such as 
business, law, or sailing, where there’s high demand for 
workers. The GM might increase the DC or determine 
only low-level tasks are available if you’re attempting 
to use an obscure Lore skill to Earn Income. You might 
also need specialized tools to accept a job, like mining 
tools to work in a mine or a merchant’s scale to buy and 
sell valuables in a market. 


SKILLS 


? — 


INCOME EXAMPLES 
The following examples show the kinds of tasks your 
character might take on to Earn Income during low-level 
and high-level play. 


HARSK MAKES TEA 

Harsk is a 3rd-level ranger and an expert at harvesting 
and brewing tea. He has a Tea Lore modifier of +7. He 
has 30 days of downtime at his disposal and decides to 
work at a prestigious local tea house. The GM decides 
this is a 5th-level task if Harsk wants to assist the tea 
master, or a 2nd-level task if he wants to serve tea. 
Harsk chooses the tougher task, and the GM secretly 
sets the DC at 20. 

Harsk rolls a 4 on his Tea Lore check for a result of 11. 
Poor Harsk has failed! He earns only 2 sp for his efforts 
and continues working for 3 more days, for a total of 
8 sp. 

At that point, the GM offers Harsk a choice: either he 
can finish out the week with the tea master and look 
for a new job, or he can lower his ambitions and serve 
in the tea house. Harsk, now more aware of his own 
capabilities, accepts the less prestigious job for now. 
He moves to his new job and attempts a new Tea Lore 
check against DC 16. Rolling a 19, he gets a result of 
26-a critical success! He earns 5 sp per day (like a 
success at a 3rd-level task). The GM rules that demand 
will be high enough that Harsk can work there for the 
remainder of his downtime if he so chooses, a total of 
26 days. Harsk accepts and earns a total of 138 sp (13 
gp, 8 sp) that month. 


LEM PERFORMS 

Lem is a 16th-level bard and legendary with his flute. He 
has a Performance modifier of +31 with his enchanted 
flute. With 30 days of downtime ahead of him, Lem 
wonders if he can find something that might excite him 
more than performing in front of a bunch of stuffy nobles. 
He finds a momentous offer indeed—a performance in a 
celestial realm, and Lem's patron goddess Shelyn might 
even be in attendance! This is a 20th-level task, and the 
GM secretly sets the DC at 40. 

Lem rolls an 11 on his Performance check for a result 
of 42. Success! The engagement lasts for a week, and 
at the end, the grateful celestials present Lem with a 
beautiful living diamond rose in constant bloom worth 
1,400 gold pieces (200 gp per day for 7 days). 

With 23 days of downtime left, Lem accepts a 14th- 
level task performing at a prestigious bardic college for 
members of a royal court. The GM secretly sets the DC 
at 32, and Lem critically succeeds, earning 28 gp per day 
for a total of 644 gp. Between the two performances, 
Lem has earned just over 2,000 gold pieces during his 
downtime-though he's not sure he'll ever sell that rose. 


- THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


8 TREASURE 


ORE RULEBOOK 4 
yaq ge el 


e nm NDI e ge A 

<) A 
MEE Io 

= 


Srainc A PERFORMANCE [PERFORMANCE] 

You perform for an audience to make money. The available 
audiences determine the level of your task, since more 
discerning audiences are harder to impress but provide a 
bigger payout. The GM determines the task level based on 
the audiences available. Performing for a typical audience of 
commoners on the street is a level 0 task, but a performance 
for a group of artisans with more refined tastes might be a 
2nd- or 3rd-level task, and ones for merchants, nobility, and 
royalty are increasingly higher level. Your degree of success 
determines whether you moved your audience and whether 
you were rewarded with applause or rotten fruit. 


IDENTIFY MAGIC (TRAINED) 


Using the skill related to the appropriate tradition, as 
explained in Magical Traditions and Skills on page 238, 
you can attempt to identify a magical item, location, 
or ongoing effect. In many cases, you can use a skill to 
attempt to Identify Magic of a tradition other than your 
own at a higher DC. The GM determines whether you can 
do this and what the DC is. 


IDENTIFY MAGIC 
CONCENTRATE Í EXPLORATION | SECRET 

Once you discover that an item, location, or ongoing effect 

is magical, you can spend 10 minutes to try to identify the 

particulars of its magic. If your attempt is interrupted, you 
must start over. The GM sets the DC for your check. Cursed 
or esoteric subjects usually have higher DCs or might even be 

impossible to identify using this activity alone. Heightening a 

spell doesn't increase the DC to identify it. 

Critical Success You learn all the attributes of the magic, 
including its name (for an effect), what it does, any means of 
activating it (for an item or location), and whether it is cursed. 

Success For an item or location, you get a sense of what it does 
and learn any means of activating it. For an ongoing effect 
(such as a spell with a duration), you learn the effect's name 
and what it does. You can't try again in hopes of getting a 
critical success. 

Failure You fail to identify the magic and can't try again for 1 day. 

Critical Failure You misidentify the magic as something else 
of the GM's choice. 


Magical Traditions and Skills 
Each magical tradition has a corresponding skill, as 
shown on the table below. You must have the trained 
proficiency rank in a skill to use it to Identify Magic or 
Learn a Spell. Something without a specific tradition, 
such as an item with the magical trait, can be identified 
using any of these skills. 


Magical Tradition Corresponding Skill 


Arcane Arcana 
Divine Religion 
Occult Occultism 
Primal Nature 


LEARN A SPELL (TRAINED) 


If you're a spellcaster, you can use the skill corresponding 
to your magical tradition to learn a new spell of that 
tradition. Table 4—3: Learning a Spell lists the Price of the 
materials needed to Learn a Spell of each level. 


LEARN A SPELL 
Requirements You have a spellcasting class feature, and the 
spell you want to learn is on your magical tradition's spell list. 
You can gain access to a new spell of your tradition from 
someone who knows that spell or from magical writing like a 
spellbook or scroll. If you can cast spells of multiple traditions, 
you can Learn a Spell of any of those traditions, but you must 
use the corresponding skill to do so. For example, if you were 
a cleric with the bard multiclass archetype, you couldn't use 
Religion to add an occult spell to your bardic spell repertoire. 

To learn the spell, you must do the following: 

* Spend 1 hour per level of the spell, during which you 
must remain in conversation with a person who knows 
the spell or have the magical writing in your possession. 

* Have materials with the Price indicated in Table 4-3. 

* Attempt a skill check for the skill corresponding to your 
tradition (DC determined by the GM, often close to the 
DC on Table 4-3). Uncommon or rare spells have higher 
DCs; full guidelines for the GM appear on page 503. 

If you have a spellbook, Learning a Spell lets you add the 
spell to your spellbook; if you prepare spells from a list, it's 
added to your list; if you have a spell repertoire, you can select 
it when you add or swap spells. 

Critical Success You expend half the materials and learn the spell. 

Success You expend the materials and learn the spell. 

Failure You fail to learn the spell but can try again after you 
gain a level. The materials aren't expended. 

Critical Failure As failure, plus you expend half the materials. 


TABLE 4-3: LEARNING A SPELL 


Spell Level Price Typical DC 
1st or cantrip 2 gp 15 
2nd 6 gp 18 
3rd 16 gp 20 
Ath 36 gp 23 
5th 70 gp 26 
6th 140 gp 28 
7th 300 gp 31 
8th 650 gp 34 
9th 1,500 gp 36 
10th 7,000 gp 41 


RECALL KNOWLEDGE (UNTRAINED) 


To remember useful information on a topic, you can 
attempt to Recall Knowledge. You might know basic 
information about something without needing to attempt 
a check, but Recall Knowledge requires you to stop and 
think for a moment so you can recollect more specific 


facts and apply them. You might even need to spend time 


investigating first. For instance, to use Medicine to learn 
the cause of death, you might need to conduct a forensic 
examination before attempting to Recall Knowledge. 


RECALL KNOWLEDGE «> 

You attempt a skill check to try to remember a bit of knowledge 

regarding a topic related to that skill. The GM determines the 

DCs for such checks and which skills apply. 

Critical Success You recall the knowledge accurately and gain 
additional information or context. 

Success You recall the knowledge accurately or gain a useful 
clue about your current situation. 

Critical Failure You recall incorrect information or gain an 
erroneous or misleading clue. 


The following skills can be used to Recall Knowledge, 
getting information about the listed topics. In some cases, 
you can get the GM's permission to use a different but 
related skill, usually against a higher DC than normal. Some 
topics might appear on multiple lists, but the skills could 
give different information. For example, Arcana might tell 
you about the magical defenses of a golem, whereas Crafting 
could tell you about its sturdy resistance to physical attacks. 

* Arcana: Arcane 

creatures of arcane significance, and arcane planes. 


theories, magical traditions, 
* Crafting: Alchemical reactions and creatures, item 


value, engineering, unusual materials, and constructs. 


SKILLS 


* Lore: The subject of the Lore skill's subcategory. 

* Medicine: Diseases, poisons, wounds, and forensics. 

* Nature: The environment, flora, geography, weather, 
creatures of natural origin, and natural planes. 

* Occultism: Ancient mysteries, obscure philosophy, 
creatures of occult significance, and esoteric planes. 

* Religion: Divine agents, divine planes, theology, 
obscure myths, and creatures of religious significance. 

* Society: Local history, key personalities, legal 
institutions, societal structure, and humanoid culture. 


The GM might allow checks to Recall Knowledge 
using other skills. For example, you might assess the skill 
of an acrobat using Acrobatics. If you're using a physical 
skill (like in this example), the GM will most likely have 
you use a mental ability score—typically Intelligence— 
instead of the skill’s normal physical ability score. 


Recall Knowledge Tasks 

These examples use Society or Religion. 

Untrained name of a ruler, key noble, or major deity 

Trained line of succession for a major noble family, core 
doctrines of a major deity 

Expert genealogy of a minor noble, teachings of an 
ancient priest 

Master hierarchy of a genie noble court, major extraplanar 
temples of a deity 

Legendary existence of a long-lost noble heir, secret 
doctrines of a religion 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES 8 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 


FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


A yy 


SUBSIST (UNTRAINED) 


If you need to provide food and shelter, you can use the 
Subsist downtime activity. This typically uses Society if 
you’re in a settlement or Survival if you’re in the wild. 


SUBSIST 

You try to provide food and shelter for yourself, and possibly 

others as well, with a standard of living described on page 294. 

The GM determines the DC based on the nature of the place 

where you're trying to Subsist. You might need a minimum 

proficiency rank to Subsist in particularly strange environments. 

Unlike most downtime activities, you can Subsist after 8 hours 

or less of exploration, but if you do, you take a -5 penalty. 

Critical Success You either provide a subsistence living for 
yourself and one additional creature, or you improve your 
own food and shelter, granting yourself a comfortable living. 

Success You find enough food and shelter with basic protection 
from the elements to provide you a subsistence living. 

Failure You're exposed to the elements and don't get enough 
food, becoming fatigued until you attain sufficient food 
and shelter. 

Critical Failure You attract trouble, eat something you 
shouldn't, or otherwise worsen your situation. You take a 
-2 circumstance penalty to checks to Subsist for 1 week. 
You don't find any food at all; if you don't have any stored 
up, you're in danger of starving or dying of thirst if you 
continue failing. 


Sample Subsist Tasks 
Untrained lush forest with calm weather or large city 
with plentiful resources 
Trained typical hillside or village 
Expert typical mountains or insular hamlet 
Master typical desert or city under siege 
Legendary barren wasteland or city of undead 


SKILL DESCRIPTIONS 


The following entries describe the skills in the game. The 
heading for each entry provides the skill's name, with 
that skill's key ability in parentheses. A brief description 
of the skill is followed by a list of actions you can use if 
you're untrained in that skill, and then the actions you 
can perform if you are trained in that skill. Some actions 
list sample tasks for each rank to give you a better 
sense of what you can accomplish as your proficiency 
increases. As the actions of a skill aren't comprehensive, 
there may be times when the GM asks you to attempt 
a skill check without using any of the listed actions, or 
times when the GM asks you to roll using a different key 
ability modifier. 

Most skills include entries for success and failure, as 
well as descriptions of what occurs on a critical success or 
a critical failure. If either of the critical entries is absent, 
treat those results as a success or failure, as normal. 


ACROBATICS (DEX) 


Acrobatics measures your ability to perform tasks requiring 
coordination and grace. When you use the Escape basic 
action (page 470), you can use your Acrobatics modifier 
instead of your unarmed attack modifier. 


BALANCE «> 

| move | 

Requirements You are in a square that contains a narrow 
surface, uneven ground, or another similar feature. 

You move across a narrow surface or uneven ground, 

attempting an Acrobatics check against its Balance DC. You 

are flat-footed while on a narrow surface or uneven ground. 

Critical Success You move up to your Speed. 

Success You move up to your Speed, treating it as difficult 
terrain (every 5 feet costs 10 feet of movement). 

Failure You must remain stationary to keep your balance 
(wasting the action) or you fall. If you fall, your turn ends. 

Critical Failure You fall and your turn ends. 


Sample Balance Tasks 
Untrained tangled roots, uneven cobblestones 
Trained wooden beam 
Expert deep, loose gravel 
Master tightrope, smooth sheet of ice 
Legendary razor's edge, chunks of floor falling in midair 


TUMBLE THROUGH “> 
You Stride up to your Speed. During this movement, you can try 
to move through the space of one enemy. Attempt an Acrobatics 
check against the enemy's Reflex DC as soon as you try to enter 
its space. You can Tumble Through using Climb, Fly, Swim, or 
another action instead of Stride in the appropriate environment. 
Success You move through the enemy' space, treating the 
squares in its space as difficult terrain (every 5 feet costs 10 
feet of movement). If you don't have enough Speed to move all 
the way through its space, you get the same effect as a failure. 
Failure Your movement ends, and you trigger reactions as if 
you had moved out of the square you started in. 


ACROBATICS TRAINED ACTIONS 
MANEUVER IN FLIGHT «> 


Requirements You have a fly Speed. 

You try a difficult maneuver while flying. Attempt an Acrobatics 

check. The GM determines what maneuvers are possible, but 

they rarely allow you to move farther than your fly Speed. 

Success You succeed at the maneuver. 

Failure Your maneuver fails. The GM chooses if you simply 
cant move or if some other detrimental effect happens. 
The outcome should be appropriate for the maneuver you 
attempted (for instance, being blown off course if you were 
trying to fly against a strong wind). 

Critical Failure As failure, but the consequence is more dire. 


Sample Maneuver in Flight Tasks 
Trained steep ascent or descent 
Expert fly against the wind, hover midair 
Master reverse direction 
Legendary fly through gale force winds 


SQUEEZE 


ATHLETICS (STR) 

Athletics allows you to perform deeds of physical 
prowess. When you use the Escape basic action (page 
470), you can use your Athletics modifier instead of your 
unarmed attack modifier. 


CLIMB $9 


EXPLORATION | move | 

You contort yourself to squeeze through a space so small you 

can barely fit through. This action is for exceptionally small 

spaces; many tight spaces are difficult terrain (page 475) that 
you can move through more quickly and without a check. 

Critical Success You squeeze through the tight space in 
1 minute per 10 feet of squeezing. 

Success You squeeze through in 1 minute per 5 feet. 

Critical Failure You become stuck in the tight space. While 
you're stuck, you can spend 1 minute attempting another 
Acrobatics check at the same DC. Any result on that 
check other than a critical failure causes you 


to become unstuck. N 
Sample Squeeze Tasks E 
Trained space barely fitting your t 


shoulders 
Master space barely fitting your head 


ARCANA (INT) 
Arcana measures how much you know about arcane 
magic and creatures. Even if you're untrained, you can 
Recall Knowledge (page 238). 

* Recall Knowledge about arcane theories; magic 
traditions; creatures of arcane significance (like 
dragons and beasts); and the Elemental, Astral, 
and Shadow Planes. 


ARCANA TRAINED ACTIONS 


You must be trained in Arcana to use it for the following 
general skill actions (page 234). 

* Decipher Writing about arcane theory. 

* Identify Magic, particularly arcane magic. 

* Learn a Spell from the arcane tradition. 


BORROW AN ARCANE SPELL 

If you're an arcane spellcaster who prepares from a spellbook, 

you can attempt to prepare a spell from someone else's 

spellbook. The GM sets the DC for the check based on the 
spell's level and rarity; it's typically a bit easier than Learning 
the Spell. 

Success You prepare the borrowed spell as part of your normal 
spell preparation. 

Failure You fail to prepare the spell, but the spell slot 
remains available for you to prepare a different 
spell. You cant try to prepare this spell 
until the next time you prepare spells. 


ES | 

EE es You have both hands free. 

You move up, down, or across an incline. Unless it's 
particularly easy, you must attempt an Athletics check. The 
GM determines the DC based on the nature of the incline and 


EQUIPMENT 
Esc 

; ‘SPELLS 

Em 

- THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


CORE RULEBOOK 43 
. SEDE ee 


environmental circumstances. You're flat-footed unless you 

have a climb Speed. 

Critical Success You move up, across, or safely down the 
incline for 5 feet plus 5 feet per 20 feet of your land Speed 
(a total of 10 feet for most PCs). 

Success You move up, across, or safely down the incline for 
5 feet per 20 feet of your land Speed (a total of 5 feet for 
most PCs, minimum 5 feet if your Speed is below 20 feet). 

Critical Failure You fall. If you began the climb on stable 
ground, you fall and land prone. 


Sample Climb Tasks 
Untrained ladder, steep slope, low-branched tree 
Trained rigging, rope, typical tree 
Expert wall with small handholds and footholds 
Master ceiling with handholds and footholds, rock wall 
Legendary smooth surface 


TABLE 4-4: CLIMB AND SWIM DISTANCE 

This table provides a quick reference for how far you can 

move with a Climb or Swim action. 
Climb Distance 


Swim Distance 


Speed Success Critical Success Critical 
5-15 feet 5 5 5 10 
20-35 feet 5 10 10 15 
40-55 feet 10 15 15 20 
60-65 feet 15 20 20 25 
FORCE OPEN «> 


Using your body, a lever, or some other tool, you attempt 
to forcefully open a door, window, container or heavy gate. 
With a high enough result, you can even smash through walls. 
Without a crowbar, prying something open takes a -2 item 
penalty to the Athletics check to Force Open. 

Critical Success You open the door, window, container, or gate 
and can avoid damaging it in the process. 

Success You break the door, window, container, or gate open, 
and it gains the broken condition. If it’s especially sturdy, 
the GM might have it take damage but not be broken. 

Critical Failure Your attempt jams the door, window, container, 
or gate shut, imposing a -2 circumstance penalty on future 
attempts to Force it Open. 


Sample Force Open Tasks 
Untrained fabric, flimsy glass 
Trained ice, sturdy glass 
Expert flimsy wooden door, wooden portcullis 
Master sturdy wooden door, iron portcullis, metal bar 
Legendary stone or iron door 


GRAPPLE +> 
| arrack | 


Requirements You have at least one free hand or have your 
target grappled or restrained. Your target isnt more than 


one size larger than you. 


You attempt to grab a creature or object with your free 
hand. Attempt an Athletics check against the target's 
Fortitude DC. You can Grapple a target you already have 
grabbed or restrained without having a hand free. 

Critical Success Your target is restrained until the end of 
your next turn unless you move or your target Escapes 
(page 470). 

Success Your target is grabbed until the end of your next turn 
unless you move or your target Escapes. 

Failure You fail to grab your target. If you already had the 
target grabbed or restrained using a Grapple, those 
conditions on that creature or object end. 

Critical Failure |f you already had the target grabbed or 
restrained, it breaks free. Your target can either grab you, 
as if it succeeded at using the Grapple action against you, 
or force you to fall and land prone. 


HIGH JUMP >> 

You Stride, then make a vertical Leap and attempt a DC 30 

Athletics check to increase the height of your jump. If you 

didn't Stride at least 10 feet, you automatically fail your check. 

This DC might be increased or decreased due to the situation, 

as determined by the GM. 

Critical Success Increase the maximum vertical distance to 8 
feet, or increase the maximum vertical distance to 5 feet 
and maximum horizontal distance to 10 feet. 

Success Increase the maximum vertical distance to 5 feet. 

Failure You Leap normally. 

Critical Failure You don't Leap at all, and instead you fall prone 
in your space. 


Leap 

The Leap basic action is used for High Jump and Long 
Jump. Leap lets you take a careful, short jump. You can 
Leap up to 10 feet horizontally if your Speed is at least 
15 feet, or up to 15 feet horizontally if your Speed is at 
least 30 feet. You land in the space where your Leap 
ends (meaning you can typically clear a 5-foot gap if your 
Speed is between 15 feet and 30 feet, or a 10-foot gap 
if your Speed is 30 feet or more). If you make a vertical 
Leap, you can move up to 3 feet vertically and 5 feet 
horizontally onto an elevated surface. 


LONG JUMP >> 

You Stride, then make a horizontal Leap and attempt an 
Athletics check to increase the length of your jump. The DC 
of the Athletics check is equal to the total distance in feet 
you're attempting to move during your Leap (so you'd need 
to succeed at a DC 20 check to Leap 20 feet). You can't Leap 
farther than your Speed. 

If you didn't Stride at least 10 feet, or if you attempt to jump 
in a different direction than your Stride, you automatically fail 
your check. This DC might be increased or decreased due to the 
situation, as determined by the GM. 

Success Increase the maximum horizontal distance you Leap 
to the desired distance. 


FALLING 
When you fall more than 5 feet, you take falling damage 
when you land, which is bludgeoning damage equal to 
half the distance you fell. If you take any damage from a 
fall, you're knocked prone when you land. 

If you fall into water, snow, or another soft substance, 
calculate the damage from the fall as though your fall 
were 20 feet shorter. The reduction can't be greater than 
the depth of the water (so when falling into water that is 
only 10 feet deep, you treat the fall as 10 feet shorter). 
You can Grab an Edge as a reaction (page 472) to reduce 
or eliminate the damage from some falls. More detailed 
rules for falling damage appear on page 463. 


Failure You Leap normally. 
Critical Failure You Leap normally, but then fall and land prone. 


SHOVE 9 

Requirements You have at least one hand free. The target 
can’t be more than one size larger than you. 

You push a creature away from you. Attempt an Athletics 

check against your target's Fortitude DC. 

Critical Success You push your target up to 10 feet away from 
you. You can Stride after it, but you must move the same 
distance and in the same direction. 

Success You push your target back 5 feet. You can Stride after 
it, but you must move the same distance and in the same 
direction. 

Critical Failure You lose your balance, fall, and land prone. 


EI 


SKILLS 


You try to knock a creature to the ground. Attempt an Athletics 

check against the target's Reflex DC. 

Critical Success The target falls and lands prone and takes 1d6 
bludgeoning damage. 

Success The target falls and lands prone. 

Critical Failure You lose your balance and fall and land prone. i PLAYING THE 


THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


Forced Movement 
The Shove action can force a creature to move. When 
an effect forces you to move, or if you start falling, the 
distance you move is defined by the effect that moved you, 


not by your Speed. Because you're not acting to move, this 
doesnt trigger reactions triggered by movement. 


SWIM $9 


ATHLETICS TRAINED ACTION 
DISARM *> 


You propel yourself through water. In most calm water, you 
succeed at the action without needing to attempt a check. If 
you must breathe air and you're submerged in water, you must 
hold your breath each round. If you fail to hold your breath, you 
begin to drown (as described on page 478). If the water you are 
swimming in is turbulent or otherwise dangerous, you might 
have to attempt an Athletics check to Swim. 

If you end your turn in water and haven't succeeded at a 
Swim action that turn, you sink 10 feet or get moved by the 
current, as determined by the GM. However, if your last action 
on your turn was to enter the water, you dont sink or move 
with the current that turn. 

Critical Success You move through the water 10 feet, plus 5 feet 
per 20 feet of your land Speed (a total of 15 feet for most PCs). 
Success You move through the water 5 feet, plus 5 feet per 

20 feet of your land Speed (a total of 10 feet for most PCs). 
Critical Failure You make no progress, and if you're holding 

your breath, you lose 1 round of air. 


Sample Swim Tasks 
Untrained lake or other still water 
Trained flowing water, like a river 
Expert swiftly flowing river 
Master stormy sea 
Legendary maelstrom, waterfall 


TRIP +> 


Requirements You have at least one hand free. Your target 
cant be more than one size larger than you. 


| arrack | | 

EA sx You have at least one hand free. The target 
can't be more than one size larger than you. 

You try to knock something out of a creature's grasp. Attempt 

an Athletics check against the target's Reflex DC. 

Critical Success You knock the item out of the target's grasp. 
It falls to the ground in the target's space. 

Success You weaken your target's grasp on the item. Until the 
start of that creature's turn, attempts to Disarm the target 
of that item gain a *2 circumstance bonus, and the target 
takes a -2 circumstance penalty to attacks with the item or 
other checks requiring a firm grasp on the item. 

Critical Failure You lose your balance and become flat-footed 
until the start of your next turn. 


CRAFTING (INT) 
You can use this skill to create and repair items. Even if 
you're untrained, you can Recall Knowledge (page 238). 

* Recall Knowledge about alchemical reactions, 
the value of items, engineering, unusual materials, 
and alchemical or mechanical creatures. The GM 
determines which creatures this applies to, but it 
usually includes constructs. 


REPAIR 


| EXPLORATION | MANIPULATE | 

Requirements You are holding or wearing a repair kit 
(page 291). 

You spend 10 minutes attempting to fix a damaged item, 

placing the item on a stable surface and using the repair kit 


a t 
x | PATHFİNDER) Core r 


mmm m = 


with both hands. The GM sets the DC, but it’s usually about 

the same DC to Repair a given item as it is to Craft it in the first 

place. You can't Repair a destroyed item. 

Critical Success You restore 10 Hit Points to the item, plus an 
additional 10 Hit Points per proficiency rank you have in 
Crafting (a total of 20 HP if you're trained, 30 HP if you're an 
expert, 40 HP if you're a master, or 50 HP if you're legendary). 

Success You restore 5 Hit Points to the item, plus an additional 
5 per proficiency rank you have in Crafting (for a total of 
10 HP if you are trained, 15 HP if you're an expert, 20 HP if 
you're a master, or 25 HP if you're legendary). 

Critical Failure You deal 2d6 damage to the item. Apply the 
item's Hardness to this damage. 


CRAFTING TRAINED ACTIONS 
You must be trained in Crafting to use it to Earn Income 
(page 236). 

* Earn Income by crafting goods for the market. 


You can make an item from raw materials. You need the 
Alchemical Crafting skill feat to create alchemical items, the 
Magical Crafting skill feat to create magic items, and the Snare 
Crafting feat to create snares. 
To Craft an item, you must meet the following requirements: 
* The item is your level or lower. An item that doesnt list 
a level is level O. If the item is 9th level or higher, you 


must be a master in Crafting, and if it's 16th or higher, 
you must be legendary. 

You have the formula for the item; see Getting 
Formulas below for more information. 

You have an appropriate set of tools and, in many 
cases, a workshop. For example, you need access to a 
smithy to forge a metal shield, or an alchemist's lab to 
produce alchemical items. 

You must supply raw materials worth at least half the 
item's Price. You always expend at least that amount 
of raw materials when you Craft successfully. If you're 
in a settlement, you can usually spend currency to get 
the amount of raw materials you need, except in the 
case of rarer precious materials. 


You must spend 4 days at work, at which point you attempt 
a Crafting check. The GM determines the DC to Craft the item 
based on its level, rarity, and other circumstances. 

If your attempt to create the item is successful, you expend the 
raw materials you supplied. You can pay the remaining portion of 
the item's Price in materials to complete the item immediately, 
or you can spend additional downtime days working on it. For 
each additional day you spend, reduce the value of the materials 
you need to expend to complete the item. This amount is 
determined using Table 4-2: Income Earned (page 236), based 
on your proficiency rank in Crafting and using your own level 
instead of a task level. After any of these downtime days, you can 
complete the item by spending the remaining portion of its Price 


[uil 
Eh 
— 


in materials. If the downtime days you spend are interrupted, you 

can return to finish the item later, continuing where you left off. 

An example of Crafting appears in the sidebar. 

Critical Success Your attempt is successful. Each additional 
day spent Crafting reduces the materials needed to complete 
the item by an amount based on your level + 1 and your 
proficiency rank in Crafting. 

Success Your attempt is successful. Each additional day spent 
Crafting reduces the materials needed to complete the item 
by an amount based on your level and your proficiency rank. 

Failure You fail to complete the item. You can salvage the raw 
materials you supplied for their full value. If you want to try 
again, you must start over. 

Critical Failure You fail to complete the item. You ruin 10% of 
the raw materials you supplied, but you can salvage the 
rest. If you want to try again, you must start over. 


Consumables and Ammunition 

You can Craft items with the consumable trait in batches, 
making up to four of the same item at once with a single 
check. This requires you to include the raw materials 
for all the items in the batch at the start, and you must 
complete the batch all at once. You also Craft non-magical 
ammunition in batches, using the quantity listed in Table 
6-8: Ranged Weapons (typically 10). 


Getting Formulas 
You can gain access to the formulas for all common 
items in Chapter 6: Equipment by purchasing a basic 
crafter's book (page 287). See the rules on page 293 for 
information on how to acquire other formulas. 


IDENTIFY ALCHEMY 


| CONCENTRATE | EXPLORATION | SECRET | 

Requirements You are holding or wearing alchemist's tools 
(page 287). 

You can identify the nature of an alchemical item with 10 minutes 

of testing using alchemist's tools. If your attempt is interrupted 

in any way, you must start over. 

Success You identify the item and the means of activating it. 

Failure You fail to identify the item but can try again. 

Critical Failure You misidentify the item as another item of 
the GM's choice. 


DECEPTION (CHA) 


You can trick and mislead others using disguises, lies, and 
other forms of subterfuge. 


CREATE A DIVERSION > 


CRAFTING EXAMPLE 
Ezren is a 5th-level wizard and an expert in Crafting. He 
has a Crafting modifier of +13 and the Magical Crafting 
feat. With 2 weeks of downtime ahead of him, he decides 
to craft a striking rune, a 4th-level item. The GM secretly 
chooses a DC of 19. 

The item has a Price of 65 gp, so Ezren prepares 32 gp, 
5 sp worth of raw materials. He has another 32 gp, 5 sp 
worth of raw materials on hand. After spending 4 days 
building and incanting spells, he rolls a 12 on his Crafting 
check, for a result of 25. That’s a success! At this point, 
Ezren can spend the additional 32 gp, 5 sp worth of 
materials to complete the item immediately for 65 gp. 

However, Ezren has 10 more days on his hands, so he 
decides to spend additional time to complete the item. 
Because he's a 5th-level character and an expert at Crafting, 
he reduces the amount he has to pay by 1 gp for each day 
spent. After spending 10 days working, he reduces the cost 
to complete the item from 65 gp to 55 gp. He spends the 
remaining portion of its Price in materials, completes the 
striking rune, and goes out on his next adventure. (He could 
have stayed home to keep working on the striking rune, 
eventually reducing the items total Price to just the half he 
paid up front, but adventuring is far more lucrative!) 

If Ezren's Crafting check result were a 29 or higher, he'd 
have gotten a critical success. In that case, hed reduce the 
remaining amount by 2 gp per day, lowering the amount 
needed to complete the item after 10 additional days of 
work to 45 gp. 


Attempt a single Deception check and compare it to the 
Perception DCs of the creatures whose attention you're trying 
to divert. Whether or not you succeed, creatures you attempt 
to divert gain a +4 circumstance bonus to their Perception DCs 
against your attempts to Create a Diversion for 1 minute. 
Success You become hidden to each creature whose Perception 

DC is less than or equal to your result. (The hidden condition 

allows you to Sneak away, as described on page 252.) This 

lasts until the end of your turn or until you do anything except 

Step or use the Hide or the Sneak action of the Stealth skill 

(pages 251 and 252). If you Strike a creature, the creature 

remains flat-footed against that attack, and you then become 

observed. If you do anything else, you become observed just 
before you act unless the GM determines otherwise. 
Failure You don't divert the attention of any creatures whose 

Perception DC exceeds your result, and those creatures are 

aware you were trying to trick them. 


IMPERSONATE 


[vem 


With a gesture, a trick, or some distracting words, you can 
create a diversion that draws creatures' attention elsewhere. 
If you use a gesture or trick, this action gains the manipulate 
trait. If you use distracting words, it gains the auditory and 
linguistic traits. 


ETE EXPLORATION | MANIPULATE | SECRET | 


You create a disguise to pass yourself off as someone or 
something you are not. Assembling a convincing disguise takes 
10 minutes and requires a disguise kit (found on page 290), but 
a simpler, quicker disguise might do the job if you're not trying 
to imitate a specific individual, at the GM's discretion. 


LE 


SKILLS 


P 


LAYING THE 


aI m DONC e ae SET SO = 5 
I. THFIND CORE RULEBOOK 42 
E x Latt i users itta ra E E edi | 


In most cases, creatures have a chance to detect your 
deception only if they use the Seek action to attempt 
Perception checks against your Deception DC. If you attempt 
to directly interact with someone while disguised, the GM 
rolls a secret Deception check for you against that creature's 
Perception DC instead. If you're disguised as a specific 
individual, the GM might give creatures you interact with a 
circumstance bonus based on how well they know the person 
you're imitating, or the GM might roll a secret Deception 
check even if you arent directly interacting with others. 
Success You trick the creature into thinking you're the person 

you're disguised as. You might have to attempt a new check 

if your behavior changes. 
Failure The creature can tell you're not who you claim to be. 
Critical Failure The creature can tell you're not who you claim 
to be, and it recognizes you if it would know you without 
a disguise. 


LIE 

| AUDITORY || CONCENTRATE | LINGUISTIC |} MENTAL | SECRET | 

You try to fool someone with an untruth. Doing so takes at 

least 1 round, or longer if the lie is elaborate. You roll a single 

Deception check and compare it against the Perception DC of 

every creature you are trying to fool. The GM might give them 

a circumstance bonus based on the situation and the nature of 

the lie you are trying to tell. Elaborate or highly unbelievable 

lies are much harder to get a creature to believe than simpler 
and more believable lies, and some lies are so big that it’s 
impossible to get anyone to believe them. 

At the GM’s discretion, if a creature initially believes your 
lie, it might attempt a Perception check later to Sense Motive 
against your Deception DC to realize it's a lie. This usually 
happens if the creature discovers enough evidence to counter 
your statements. 

Success The target believes your lie. 

Failure The target doesn't believe your lie and gains a +4 
circumstance bonus against your attempts to Lie for the 
duration of your conversation. The target is also more likely 
to be suspicious of you in the future. 


DECEPTION TRAINED ACTION 


FEINT 9 

Requirements You are within melee reach of the target you 
attempt to Feint. 

With a misleading flourish, you leave an opponent unprepared 

for your real attack. Attempt a Deception check against your 

target's Perception DC. 

Critical Success You throw your enemy's defenses against 
you entirely off. The target is flat-footed against melee 
attacks that you attempt against it until the end of your 
next turn. 

Success Your foe is fooled, but only momentarily. The target is 
flat-footed against the next melee attack that you attempt 
against it before the end of your current turn. 


Critical Failure Your feint backfires. You are flat-footed against 
melee attacks the target attempts against you until the end 
of your next turn. 


DIPLOMACY (CHA) 


You influence others through negotiation and flattery. 


GATHER INFORMATION 


| EXPLORATION | SECRET | 

You canvass local markets, taverns, and gathering places in 

an attempt to learn about a specific individual or topic. The 

GM determines the DC of the check and the amount of time it 

takes (typically 2 hours, but sometimes more), along with any 

benefit you might be able to gain by spending coin on bribes, 

drinks, or gifts. 

Success You collect information about the individual or topic. 
The GM determines the specifics. 

Critical Failure You collect incorrect information about the 
individual or topic. 


Sample Gather Information Tasks 
Untrained talk of the town 
Trained common rumor 
Expert obscure rumor, poorly guarded secret 
Master well-guarded or esoteric information 
Legendary information known only to an incredibly 
select few, or only to extraordinary beings 


MAKE AN IMPRESSION 


With at least 1 minute of conversation, during which you engage 
in charismatic overtures, flattery, and other acts of goodwill, 
you seek to make a good impression on someone to make them 
temporarily agreeable. At the end of the conversation, attempt 
a Diplomacy check against the Will DC of one target, modified 
by any circumstances the GM sees fit. Good impressions (or bad 
impressions, on a critical failure) last for only the current social 
interaction unless the GM decides otherwise. 
Critical Success The target's attitude toward you improves by 
two steps. 
Success The target's attitude toward you improves by one step. 
Critical Failure The target's attitude toward you decreases by 
one step. 


Changing Attitudes 

Your influence on NPCs is measured with a set of attitudes 
that reflect how they view your character. These are 
only a brief summary of a creature's disposition. The 
GM will supply additional nuance based on the history 
and beliefs of the characters you're interacting with, and 
their attitudes can change in accordance with the story. 
The attitudes are detailed in the Conditions Appendix and 
are summarized here. 

* Helpful: Willing to help you and responds favorably to 

your requests. 


* Friendly: Has a good attitude toward you, but won't 
necessarily stick their neck out to help you. 

e Indifferent: Doesn't care about you either way. (Most 
NPCs start out indifferent.) 

¢ Unfriendly: Dislikes you and doesnt want to help you. 

* Hostile: Actively works against you—and might attack 
you just because of their dislike. 


No one can ever change the attitude of a player character 
with these skills. You can roleplay interactions with 
player characters, and even use Diplomacy results if the 
player wants a mechanical sense of how convincing or 
charming a character is, but players make the ultimate 
decisions about how their characters respond. 


REQUEST 9 

| aupiTorY | CONCENTRATE | LINGUISTIC | MENTAL | 

You can make a request of a creature that’s friendly or helpful 

to you. You must couch the request in terms that the target 

would accept given their current attitude toward you. The 

GM sets the DC based on the difficulty of the request. Some 

requests are unsavory or impossible, and even a helpful NPC 

would never agree to them. 

Critical Success The target agrees to your request without 
qualifications. 

Success The target agrees to your request, but they might 
demand added provisions or alterations to the request. 

Failure The target refuses the request, though they might 
propose an alternative that is less extreme. 

Critical Failure Not only does the target refuse the request, 
but their attitude toward you decreases by one step due to 
the temerity of the request. 


INTIMIDATION (CHA) 


You bend others to your will using threats. 


COERCE 


With threats either veiled or overt, you attempt to bully a 

creature into doing what you want. You must spend at least 1 

minute of conversation with a creature you can see and that 

can either see or sense you. At the end of the conversation, 
attempt an Intimidation check against the targets Will DC, 
modified by any circumstances the GM determines. The 
attitudes referenced in the effects below are summarized in 
the Changing Attitudes sidebar on page 246 and described in 

full in the Conditions Appendix, starting on page 618. 

Critical Success The target gives you the information you 
seek or agrees to follow your directives so long as they 
aren't likely to harm the target in any way. The target 
continues to comply for an amount of time determined by 
the GM but not exceeding 1 day, at which point the target 
becomes unfriendly (if they weren't already unfriendly 
or hostile). However, the target is too scared of you to 
retaliate—at least in the short term. 


Success As critical success, but once the target becomes 
unfriendly, they might decide to act against you-for 
example, by reporting you to the authorities or assisting 
your enemies. 

Failure The target doesn't do what you say, and if they were 
not already unfriendly or hostile, they become unfriendly. 
Critical Failure The target refuses to comply, becomes hostile 
if they weren't already, and can't be Coerced by you for at 

least 1 week. 


DEMORALIZE +> 


With a sudden shout, a well-timed taunt, or a cutting put- 
down, you can shake an enemy's resolve. Choose a creature 
within 30 feet of you who you're aware of. Attempt an 
Intimidation check against that target's Will DC. If the target 
does not understand the language you are speaking, or 
you're not speaking a language, you take a -4 circumstance 
penalty to the check. Regardless of your result, the target is 
temporarily immune to your attempts to Demoralize it for 
10 minutes. 

Critical Success The target becomes frightened 2. 

Success The target becomes frightened 1. 


LORE (INT) 

You have specialized information on a narrow topic. 
Lore features many subcategories. You might have 
Military Lore, Sailing Lore, Vampire Lore, or any similar 
subcategory of the skill. Each subcategory counts as its 
own skill, so applying a skill increase to Planar Lore 
wouldn't increase your proficiency with Sailing Lore, 
for example. 

You gain a specific subcategory of the Lore skill 
from your background. The GM determines what other 
subcategories they'll allow as Lore skills, though these 
categories are always less broad than any of the other 
skills that allow you to Recall Knowledge, and they should 
never be able to fully or mainly take the place of another 
skill’s Recall Knowledge action. For instance, you couldn't 
choose Magic Lore to recall the breadth of knowledge 
about magic covered by Arcana, Nature, Occultism, and 
Religion, or choose Adventuring Lore to give you all the 
information an adventurer needs, or choose Planar Lore 
to gain all the information spread across various skills and 
subcategories such as Heaven Lore. 

If you have multiple subcategories of Lore that could 
apply to a check or that would overlap with another skill 
in the circumstances, you can use the skill with the better 
skill modifier or the one you would prefer to use. If there's 
any doubt whether a Lore skill applies to a specific topic 
or action, the GM decides whether it can be used or not. 

Even if you're untrained in Lore, you can use it to 
Recall Knowledge (page 238). 

* Recall Knowledge about the subject of your Lore 

skill’s subcategory. 


hh. 


| 
| 


SKILLS 


EQUIPMENT 


1 


E 


SPELLS 


HE AGE OF 


LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


GAME 


C 


| APF ND 
i fs 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


ES 


Slee ne unm 


p THFiI CORE RULEBOOK j 
D EE: cea m EE o n Rat id 


COMMON LORE SUBCATEGORIES 


You can learn any Lore skill your GM gives you permission 

to take. The following list covers a wide variety of 

common Lore topics appropriate for most campaigns. 

Backgrounds often grant you a Lore from this list. 

* Academia Lore 

* Accounting Lore 

* Architecture Lore 

* Art Lore 

* Circus Lore 

* Engineering Lore 

* Farming Lore 

* Fishing Lore 

* Fortune-Telling Lore 

* Games Lore 

* Genealogy Lore 

* Gladiatorial Lore 

* Guild Lore 

* Heraldry Lore 

* Herbalism Lore 

* Hunting Lore 

* Labor Lore 

* Legal Lore 

* Library Lore 

* Lore about a specific deity (Abadar Lore, lomedae 
Lore, etc.) 

* Lore about a specific creature or narrow category of 
creatures (Demon Lore, Owlbear Lore, Vampire Lore, etc.) 

* Lore of a specific plane other than the Material Plane, 
or the plane in which the game is set if not the Material 
Plane (Abyss Lore, Astral Plane Lore, Heaven Lore, etc.) 

* Lore about a specific settlement (Absalom Lore, 
Magnimar Lore, etc.) 

* Lore about a specific terrain (Mountain Lore, River 
Lore, etc.) 

* Lore of a type of food or drink (Alcohol Lore, Baking 
Lore, Butchering Lore, Cooking Lore, Tea Lore, etc.) 

* Mercantile Lore 

* Midwifery Lore 

* Milling Lore 

* Mining Lore 

* Sailing Lore 

* Scouting Lore 

* Scribing Lore 

* Stabling Lore 

* Tanning Lore 

* Theater Lore 

* Underworld Lore 

* Warfare Lore 


LORE TRAINED ACTION 
You must be trained in Lore to use it to Earn Income 
(page 236). 
* Earn Income by using your knowledge to practice 
a trade. 


MEDICINE (WIS) 


You can patch up wounds and help people recover from 
diseases and poisons. Even if you're untrained in Medicine, 
you can use it to Recall Knowledge (page 238). 

* Recall Knowledge about diseases, injuries, poisons, 
and other ailments. You can use this to perform 
forensic examinations if you spend 10 minutes 
(or more, as determined by the GM) checking for 
evidence such as wound patterns. This is most useful 
when determining how a body was injured or killed. 


ADMINISTER FIRST AID +> 

Requirements You're wearing or holding healer's tools (page 290). 

You perform first aid on an adjacent creature that is dying 

or bleeding. If a creature is both dying and bleeding, choose 

which ailment you're trying to treat before you roll. You 
can Administer First Aid again to attempt to remedy the 
other effect. 

* Stabilize Attempt a Medicine check on a creature that 
has O Hit Points and the dying condition. The DC is 
equal to 5 * that creature's recovery roll DC (typically 
15 + its dying value). 

* Stop Bleeding Attempt a Medicine check on a creature 
that is taking persistent bleed damage (page 452), 
giving them a chance to make another flat check to 
remove the persistent damage. The DC is usually the DC 
of the effect that caused the bleed. 

Success If you're trying to stabilize, the creature loses the dying 
condition (but remains unconscious). If you're trying to stop 
bleeding, the creature attempts a flat check to end the bleeding. 

Critical Failure If you were trying to stabilize, the creature's 
dying value increases by 1. If you were trying to stop 
bleeding, it immediately takes an amount of damage equal 
to its persistent bleed damage. 


MEDICINE TRAINED ACTIONS 


TREAT DISEASE 

Requirements You're wearing or holding healer's tools (page 290). 

You spend at least 8 hours caring for a diseased creature. 

Attempt a Medicine check against the diseases DC. After you 

attempt to Treat a Disease for a creature, you cant try again 

until after that creature's next save against the disease. 

Critical Success You grant the creature a *4 circumstance 
bonus to its next saving throw against the disease. 

Success You grant the creature a *2 circumstance bonus to its 
next saving throw against the disease. 

Critical Failure Your efforts cause the creature to take a -2 
circumstance penalty to its next save against the disease. 


TREAT POISON *> 


Requirements You're wearing or holding healer's tools (page 290). 
You treat a patient to prevent the spread of poison. Attempt a 


Medicine check against the poison's DC. After you attempt to 

Treat a Poison for a creature, you can't try again until after the 

next time that creature attempts a save against the poison. 

Critical Success You grant the creature a *4 circumstance 
bonus to its next saving throw against the poison. 

Success You grant the creature a *2 circumstance bonus to its 
next saving throw against the poison. 

Critical Failure Your efforts cause the creature to take a -2 
circumstance penalty to its next save against the poison. 


TREAT WOUNDS 

| EXPLORATION | | 
Requirements You're wearing or holding healer's tools (page 290). 
You spend 10 minutes treating one injured living creature 
(targeting yourself, if you so choose). The target is then 
temporarily immune to Treat Wounds actions for 1 hour, but 
this interval overlaps with the time you spent treating (so a 
patient can be treated once per hour, not once per 70 minutes). 

The Medicine check DC is usually 15, though the GM might 
adjust it based on the circumstances, such as treating a patient 
outside in a storm, or treating magically cursed wounds. If you're 
an expert in Medicine, you can instead attempt a DC 20 check 
to increase the Hit Points regained by 10; if you're a master of 
Medicine, you can instead attempt a DC 30 check to increase 
the Hit Points regained by 30; and if you're legendary, you can 
instead attempt a DC 40 check to increase the Hit Points regained 
by 50. The damage dealt on a critical failure remains the same. 

If you succeed at your check, you can continue treating the 
target to grant additional healing. If you treat them for a total 
of 1 hour, double the Hit Points they regain from Treat Wounds. 

The result of your Medicine check determines how many 
Hit Points the target regains. 

Critical Success The target regains 4d8 Hit Points, and its 
wounded condition is removed. 

Success The target regains 2d8 Hit Points, and its wounded 
condition is removed. 

Critical Failure The target takes 1d8 damage. 


NATURE (WIS) 

You know about the natural world, and you command and 

train animals and magical beasts. Even if you're untrained 

in Nature, you can use it to Recall Knowledge (page 238). 

* Recall Knowledge about fauna, flora, geography, 

weather, the environment, creatures of natural origin 
(like animals, beasts, fey, and plants), the First World, 
the Material Plane, and the Elemental Planes. 


COMMAND AN ANIMAL *> 


| aupiTory | CONCENTRATE | 
You issue an order to an animal. Attempt a Nature check 
against the animal's Will DC. The GM might adjust the DC if the 
animal has a good attitude toward you, you suggest a course of 
action it was predisposed toward, or you offer it a treat. 

You automatically fail if the animal is hostile or unfriendly 
to you. If the animal is helpful to you, increase your degree of 


COMMANDED ANIMALS 

Issuing commands to an animal doesnt always go 
smoothly. An animal is an independent creature with 
limited intelligence. Most animals understand only the 
simplest instructions, so you might be able to instruct 
your animal to move to a certain square but not dictate 
a specific path to get there, or command it to attack a 
certain creature but not to make its attack nonlethal. The 
GM decides the specifics of the action your animal uses. 

The animal does what you commanded as soon as 
it can, usually as its first action on its next turn. If you 
successfully commanded it multiple times, it does what 
you said in order. It forgets all commands beyond what it 
can accomplish on its turn. If multiple people command 
the same animal, the GM determines how the animal 
reacts. The GM might also make the DC higher if someone 
has already tried to Command the Animal that round. 


success by one step. You might be able to Command an Animal 
more easily with a feat like Ride (page 266). 

Most animals know the Drop Prone, Leap, Seek, Stand, 
Stride, and Strike basic actions. If an animal knows an activity, 
such as a horses Gallop, you can Command the Animal to 
perform the activity, but you must spend as many actions 
on Command an Animal as the activity number of actions. 
You can also spend multiple actions to Command the Animal 
to perform that number of basic actions on its next turn; for 
instance, you could spend 3 actions to Command an Animal to 
Stride three times or to Stride twice and then Strike. 

Success The animal does as you command on its next turn. 

Failure The animal is hesitant or resistant, and it does nothing. 

Critical Failure The animal misbehaves or misunderstands, 
and it takes some other action determined by the GM. 


NATURE TRAINED ACTIONS 


You must be trained in Nature to use it for the following 
general skill actions (page 234). 

* Identify Magic, particularly primal magic. 

* Learn a Spell from the primal tradition. 


OCCULTISM (INT) 


You know a great deal about ancient philosophies, esoteric 
lore, obscure mysticism, and supernatural creatures. Even 
if you're untrained in Occultism, you can use it to Recall 
Knowledge (page 238). 

* Recall Knowledge about ancient mysteries; obscure 
philosophies; creatures of occult significance (like 
aberrations, spirits, and oozes); and the Positive 
Energy, Negative Energy, Shadow, Astral, and 
Ethereal Planes. 


OCCULTISM TRAINED ACTIONS 


You must be trained in Occultism to use it for the 
following general skill actions (page 234). 


SKILLS 


LOST OMENS 


LI 
P 
* 


i PLAYING THE 


4 
a 


= wp PB er ae oma m co aper a 
) | F CORE RULEBOOK 4 
: Doiii ae iar i Y oem " 


* Decipher Writing on occult topics, including 
complex metaphysical systems, syncretic principles, 
weird philosophies, and incoherent ramblings. 

* Identify Magic, particularly occult magic. 

* Learn a Spell from the occult tradition. 


PERFORMANCE (CHA) 
You are skilled at a form of performance, using your 
talents to impress a crowd or make a living. 


BASIC COMPETENCE 


Some performances require you to be more than just 
charismatic, and if you don’t meet the demands of the 
art form or the audience, the GM might apply a penalty 
based on the relevant ability score. For example, if 
you’re dancing and have a negative Dexterity modifier, 
you might take a penalty to your attempt at dancing. 
Likewise, if you are orating and have a negative 
Intelligence modifier, you might have to hope your 
raw Charisma can overcome the penalties from your 
intellectual shortcomings—or ask someone to help write 
your speeches! 


PERFORMANCE TRAITS 


When you use an action that utilizes the Performance 
skill, it gains one or more traits relevant to the type of 
performance. The GM might change these depending on 
the circumstances, but the most common performance- 
based traits are listed below. 


Performance Additional Traits 


Act or perform comedy Auditory, linguistic, and visual 
Dance Move and visual 

Play an instrument Auditory and manipulate 
Orate or sing Auditory and linguistic 


PERFORM ‘> 

When making a brief performance—one song, a quick dance, 

or a few jokes—you use the Perform action. This action is most 

useful when you want to prove your capability or impress 

someone quickly. Performing rarely has an impact on its 

own, but it might influence the DCs of subsequent Diplomacy 

checks against the observers—or even change their attitudes— 

if the GM sees fit. 

Critical Success Your performance impresses the observers, 
and they're likely to share stories of your ability. 

Success You prove yourself, and observers appreciate the 
quality of your performance. 

Failure Your performance falls flat. 

Critical Failure You demonstrate only incompetence. 


Sample Perform Tasks 
Untrained audience of commoners 
Trained audience of artisans 


Expert audience of merchants or minor nobles 
Master audience of high nobility or minor royalty 
Legendary audience of major royalty or otherworldly beings 


PERFORMANCE TRAINED ACTION 


You must be trained in Performance to use it to Earn 
Income (page 236). 
* Earn Income by staging a performance. 


RELIGION (WIS) 

The secrets of deities, dogma, faith, and the realms of 
divine creatures both sublime and sinister are open to 
you. You also understand how magic works, though 
your training imparts a religious slant to that knowledge. 
Even if you're untrained in Religion, you can use it to Recall 
Knowledge (page 238). 

* Recall Knowledge about divine agents, the finer 
points of theology, obscure myths regarding a 
faith, and creatures of religious significance (like 
celestials, fiends, and undead), the Outer Sphere, 
and the Positive and Negative Energy Planes. 


RELIGION TRAINED ACTIONS 


You must be trained in Religion to use it for the following 
general skill actions (page 234). 
* Decipher Writing of a religious nature, including 
allegories, homilies, and proverbs. 
* Identify Magic, particularly divine magic. 
* Learn a Spell from the divine tradition. 


SOCIETY (INT) 

You understand the people and systems that make 
civilization run, and you know the historical events that 
make societies what they are today. Further, you can use 
that knowledge to navigate the complex physical, societal, 
and economic workings of settlements. Even if you're 
untrained in Society, you can use it for the following 
general skill actions (page 234). 

* Recall Knowledge about local history, important 
personalities, legal institutions, societal structure, 
and humanoid cultures. The GM might allow 
Society to apply to other creatures that are major 
elements of society in your region, such as the 
draconic nobility in a kingdom of humans ruled 
by dragons. 

* Subsist in a settlement by finding shelter, scrounging, 
or begging for food. 


SOCIETY TRAINED ACTIONS 
You must be trained in Society to use it to Decipher 
Writing (page 234). 
* Decipher Writing that's a coded message, text 
written in an incomplete or archaic form, or in 
some cases, text in a language you don’t know. 


CREATE FORGERY 

[_cownrime | secre | 

You create a forged document, usually over the course of a 
day or a week. You must have the proper writing material to 
create a forgery. When you Create a Forgery, the GM rolls a 
secret DC 20 Society check. If you succeed, the forgery is of 
good enough quality that passive observers can't notice the 
fake. Only those who carefully examine the document and 
attempt a Perception or Society check against your Society 
DC can do so. 

If the document's handwriting doesn't need to be specific 
to a person, you need only to have seen a similar document 
before, and you gain up to a *4 circumstance bonus to your 
check, as well as to your DC (the GM determines the bonus). 
To forge a specific person's handwriting, you need a sample of 
that person's handwriting. 

If your check result was below 20, the forgery has some 
obvious signs of being a fake, so the GM compares your 
result to each passive observer's Perception DC or Society DC, 
whichever is higher, using the success or failure results below. 
Once the GM rolls your check for a document, that same result 
is used against all passive observers' DCs no matter how many 
creatures passively observe that document. 

An observer who was fooled on a passive glance can still 
choose to closely scrutinize the documents on the lookout for 
a forgery, using different techniques and analysis methods 
beyond the surface elements you successfully forged with 
your original check. In that case, the observer can attempt a 
Perception or Society check against your Society DC (if they 
succeed, they know your document is a forgery). 

Success The observer does not detect the forgery. 
Failure The observer knows your document is a forgery. 


STEALTH (DEX) 


You are skilled at avoiding detection, allowing you to slip 
past foes, hide, or conceal an item. 


CONCEAL AN OBJECT 9 

| Maniputare | secrer | 

You hide a small object on your person (such as a weapon of 
light Bulk). When you try to sneak a concealed object past 
someone who might notice it, the GM rolls your Stealth check 
and compares it to this passive observer's Perception DC. Once 
the GM rolls your check for a concealed object, that same 
result is used no matter how many passive observers you 
try to sneak it past. If a creature is specifically searching you 
for an item, it can attempt a Perception check against your 
Stealth DC (finding the object on success). 

You can also conceal an object somewhere other than your 
person, such as among undergrowth or in a secret compartment 
within a piece of furniture. In this case, characters Seeking in 
an area compare their Perception check results to your Stealth 
DC to determine whether they find the object. 

Success The object remains undetected. 
Failure The searcher finds the object. 


BEING STEALTHY 

If you want to sneak around when there are creatures 

that can see you, you can use a combination of Hide and 

Sneak to do so. 

e First, Hide behind something (either by taking 
advantage of cover or having the concealed condition 
due to fog, a spell, or a similar effect). A successful 
Stealth check makes you hidden, though the creatures 
still know roughly where you are. 

* Second, now that you're hidden, you can Sneak. That 
means you can move at half your Speed and attempt 
another Stealth check. If it's successful, you're now 
undetected. That means the creatures don't know 
which square you're in anymore. 


If you were approaching creatures that didn't know 
you were there, you could begin Sneaking right away, 
since they didn't know your location to start with. Some 
actions can cause you to become observed again, but 
they're mostly what you'd expect: standing out in the 
open, attacking someone, making a bunch of noise, and 
so forth. If you Strike someone after successfully Hiding 
or Sneaking, though, they're flat-footed to that Strike. 

Creatures can try to find you using the Seek action, 
described on page 471. 

Three conditions explain the states of detection. 
Remember that these conditions are relative to each 
creature—you can be observed by one creature while 
hidden to another and undetected by a third. 


OBSERVED 


You're in the creature's clear view. 


HIDDEN 


The creature knows your location but can't see you. 


UNDETECTED 


The creature doesn't know your location. 


HIDE 9 


i | 


| secret | 

You huddle behind cover or greater cover or deeper into 

concealment to become hidden, rather than observed. The 

GM rolls your Stealth check in secret and compares the 

result to the Perception DC of each creature you're observed 

by but that you have cover or greater cover against or are 
concealed from. You gain the circumstance bonus from cover 
or greater cover to your check. 

Success If the creature could see you, you're now hidden 
from it instead of observed. If you were hidden from or 
undetected by the creature, you retain that condition. 

If you successfully become hidden to a creature but 
then cease to have cover or greater cover against it or be 
concealed from it, you become observed again. You cease 
being hidden if you do anything except Hide, Sneak, or Step. 


LS 


E 


LE 


SKILLS 


THE AGE OF 


L 


P 


OST OMENS 


LAYING THE 


If you attempt to Strike a creature, the creature remains flat- 
footed against that attack, and you then become observed. If 
you do anything else, you become observed just before you 
act unless the GM determines otherwise. The GM might allow 
you to perform a particularly unobtrusive action without 
being noticed, possibly requiring another Stealth check. 

If a creature uses Seek to make you observed by it, you 
must successfully Hide to become hidden from it again. 


SNEAK +> 


| move | secret | 

You can attempt to move to another place while becoming 

or staying undetected. Stride up to half your Speed. (You can 

use Sneak while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or Swimming 
instead of Striding if you have the corresponding movement 
type; you must move at half that Speed.) 

If you're undetected by a creature and it's impossible for that 
creature to observe you (for a typical creature, this includes 
when you're invisible, the observer is blinded, or you're in 
darkness and the creature can't see in darkness), for any critical 
failure you roll on a check to Sneak, you get a failure instead. 
You also continue to be undetected if you lose cover or greater 
cover against or are no longer concealed from such a creature. 

At the end of your movement, the GM rolls your Stealth 
check in secret and compares the result to the Perception 
DC of each creature you were hidden from or undetected by 
at the start of your movement. If you have cover or greater 
cover from the creature throughout your Stride, you gain the 
*2 circumstance bonus from cover (or *4 from greater cover) 
to your Stealth check. Because you're moving, the bonus 
increase from Taking Cover doesn't apply. You dont get to roll 
against a creature if, at the end of your movement, you neither 
are concealed from it nor have cover or greater cover against 
it. You automatically become observed by such a creature. 
Success You're undetected by the creature during your movement 

and remain undetected by the creature at the end of it. 

You become observed as soon as you do anything other 
than Hide, Sneak, or Step. If you attempt to Strike a creature, 
the creature remains flat-footed against that attack, and you 
then become observed. If you do anything else, you become 
observed just before you act unless the GM determines 
otherwise. The GM might allow you to perform a particularly 
unobtrusive action without being noticed, possibly requiring 
another Stealth check. If you speak or make a deliberate 
loud noise, you become hidden instead of undetected. 

If a creature uses Seek and you become hidden to it as a 
result, you must Sneak if you want to become undetected 
by that creature again. 

Failure A telltale sound or other sign gives your position away, 
though you still remain unseen. You're hidden from the 
creature throughout your movement and remain so. 

Critical Failure You're spotted! You're observed by the creature 
throughout your movement and remain so. If you're 
invisible and were hidden from the creature, instead of 
being observed you're hidden throughout your movement 
and remain so. 


SURVIVAL (WIS) 


You are adept at living in the wilderness, foraging for 
food and building shelter, and with training you discover 
the secrets of tracking and hiding your trail. Even if you’re 
untrained, you can still use Survival to Subsist (page 240). 
* Subsist in the wild by foraging for food and 
building shelter. 


SENSE DIRECTION 


| EXPLORATION | SECRET | 

Using the stars, the position of the sun, traits of the 

geography or flora, or the behavior of fauna, you can stay 

oriented in the wild. Typically, you attempt a Survival check 
only once per day, but some environments or changes might 
necessitate rolling more often. The GM determines the DC 
and how long this activity takes (usually just a minute or so). 

More unusual locales or those you're unfamiliar with might 

require you to have a minimum proficiency rank to Sense 

Direction. Without a compass, you take a -2 item penalty to 

checks to Sense Direction. 

Critical Success You get an excellent sense of where you are. 
If you are in an environment with cardinal directions, you 
know them exactly. 

Success You gain enough orientation to avoid becoming 
hopelessly lost. If you are in an environment with cardinal 
directions, you have a sense of those directions. 


Sense Direction Tasks 
Untrained determine a cardinal direction using the sun 
Trained find an overgrown path in a forest 
Expert navigate a hedge maze 
Master navigate a byzantine labyrinth or relatively 
featureless desert 
Legendary navigate an ever-changing dream realm 


SURVIVAL TRAINED ACTIONS 
COVER TRACKS 


| CONCENTRATE | EXPLORATION | MOVE | 
You cover your tracks, moving up to half your travel Speed, 
using the rules on page 479. You don't need to attempt a 
Survival check to cover your tracks, but anyone tracking you 
must succeed at a Survival check against your Survival DC if it 
is higher than the normal DC to Track. 

In some cases, you might Cover Tracks in an encounter. In 
this case, Cover Tracks is a single action and doesn't have the 
exploration trait. 


TRACK 


| CONCENTRATE | EXPLORATION | MOVE | 

You follow tracks, moving at up to half your travel Speed, using 
the rules on page 479. After a successful check to Track, you 
can continue following the tracks at half your Speed without 
attempting additional checks for up to 1 hour. In some cases, 
you might Track in an encounter. In this case, Track is a single 
action and doesnt have the exploration trait, but you might 


need to roll more often because you're in a tense situation. 

The GM determines how often you must attempt this check. 
You attempt your Survival check when you start Tracking, 

once every hour you continue tracking, and any time 

something significant changes in the trail. The GM determines 

the DCs for such checks, depending on the freshness of the 

trail, the weather, and the type of ground. 

Success You find the trail or continue to follow the one you're 
already following. 

Failure You lose the trail but can try again after a 1-hour delay. 

Critical Failure You lose the trail and can't try again for 24 hours. 


Sample Track Tasks 

Untrained the path of a large army following a road 

Trained relatively fresh tracks of a rampaging bear 
through the plains 

Expert a nimble panther's tracks through a jungle, tracks 
obscured by rainfall 

Master tracks obscured by winter snow, tracks of a 
mouse or smaller creature, tracks left on surfaces that 
cant hold prints like bare rock 

Legendary old tracks through a windy desert's sands, 
tracks obscured by a major blizzard or hurricane 


THIEVERY (DEX) 


You are trained in a particular set of skills favored by 
thieves and miscreants. 


PALM AN OBJECT +> 

| MANIPULA 

Palming a E unattended object without being noticed 

requires you to roll a single Thievery check against the 

Perception DCs of all creatures who are currently observing 

you. You take the object whether or not you successfully 

conceal that you did so. You can typically only Palm Objects 

of negligible Bulk, though the GM might determine otherwise 

depending on the situation. 

Success The creature does not notice you Palming the Object. 

Failure The creature notices you Palming the Object, and the 
GM determines the creature's response. 


STEAL 9 


ENTUM 

You try to take a small object from another creature without 
being noticed. Typically, you can Steal only an object of 
negligible Bulk, and you automatically fail if the creature who 
has the object is in combat or on guard. 

Attempt a Thievery check to determine if you successfully 
Steal the object. The DC to Steal is usually the Perception DC 
of the creature wearing the object. This assumes the object 
is worn but not closely guarded (like a loosely carried pouch 
filled with coins, or an object within such a pouch). If the object 
is in a pocket or similarly protected, you take a -5 penalty to 
your Thievery check. The GM might increase the DC of your 
check if the nature of the object makes it harder to steal (such 


as a very small item in a large pack, or a sheet of parchment 
mixed in with other documents). 

You might also need to compare your Thievery check result 
against the Perception DCs of observers other than the person 
wearing the object. The GM may increase the Perception DCs 
of these observers if they're distracted. 

Success You steal the item without the bearer noticing, or an 
observer doesn't see you take or attempt to take the item. 

Failure The item's bearer notices your attempt before you can 
take the object, or an observer sees you take or attempt 
to take the item. The GM determines the response of any 
creature that notices your theft. 


THIEVERY TRAINED ACTIONS 


DISABLE A DEVICE +> 

Requirements Some devices require you to use thieves' tools 
(page 291) when disabling them. 

This action allows you to disarm a trap or another complex device. 

Often, a device requires numerous successes before becoming 

disabled, depending on its construction and complexity. Thieves' 

tools are helpful and sometimes even required to Disable 

a Device, as determined by the GM, and sometimes a device 

requires a higher proficiency rank in Thievery to disable it. 
Your Thievery check result determines how much progress 

you make. 

Critical Success You disable the device, or you achieve two 
successes toward disabling a complex device. You leave no 
trace of your tampering, and you can rearm the device later, 
if that type of device can be rearmed. 

Success You disable the device, or you achieve one success 
toward disabling a complex device. 

Critical Failure You trigger the device. 


PICK A LOCK 9$ 


| MANIPULATE | 
Requirements You're holding or wearing thieves’ tools (page 291). 
Opening a lock without a key is very similar to Disabling a 
Device, but the DC of the check is determined by the complexity 
and construction of the lock you are attempting to pick (locks 
and their DCs are found on page 290). Locks of higher qualities 
might require multiple successes to unlock, since otherwise 
even an unskilled burglar could easily crack the lock by 
attempting the check until they rolled a natural 20. If you lack 
the proper tools, the GM might let you used improvised picks, 
which are treated as shoddy tools, depending on the specifics 
of the lock. 

Critical Success You unlock the lock, or you achieve two 
successes toward opening a complex lock. You leave no 
trace of your tampering. 

Success You open the lock, or you achieve one success toward 
opening a complex lock. 

Critical Failure You break your tools. Fixing them requires using 

Crafting to Repair them or else swapping in replacement 

picks (costing 3 sp, or 3 gp for infiltrator thieves’ tools). 


SKILLS 


EQUIPMENT 


T 


SPELLS 
Er: 


HE AGE OF 
_ LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


x 
[*] 
Q 
al 
5] 
= 
2 
ae 
^| 
& 
Q 
Q 


CHAPTER 5: FEATS 


All kinds of experiences and training can shape your character beyond what you learn by 
advancing in your class. Abilities that require a degree of training but can be learned by 
anyone—not only members of certain ancestries or classes—are called general feats. 


ANN ACC 


For most classes, you gain a general feat when you reach These feats also have the skill trait. Most characters gain 
3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter. Each time you gain skill feats at 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter. When 
a general feat, you can select any feat with the general trait you gain a skill feat, you must select a general feat with the 
whose prerequisites you satisfy. skill trait; you can’t select a general feat that lacks the skill 
General feats also include a subcategory of skill feats, trait. The level of a skill feat is typically the minimum level 
which expand on what you can accomplish via skills. at which a character could meet its proficiency prerequisite. EDUIPMENT 


TABLE 5-1: GENERAL FEATS . SPELLS 


Non-Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits | y 

Adopted Ancestry 1 — Gain access to ancestry feats from another ancestry D THE AGE OF 
Armor Proficiency 1 — Become trained in a type of armor ‘LOST OMENS 
Breath Control 1 - Hold your breath longer and gain benefits against inhaled threats 3 

Canny Acumen 1 = Become an expert in a saving throw or Perception Be THE 
Diehard 1 - Die at dying 5, rather than dying 4 Ea DAME 
Fast Recovery 1 Constitution 14 Regain more HP from rest, recover faster from disease and poisons = 

Feather Step 1 Dexterity 14 Step into difficult terrain à P GAME 
Fleet 1 = Increase your Speed by 5 feet _ MASTERING 
Incredible Initiative 1 = +2 to initiative rolls Teu 

Ride 1 — Automatically succeed at commanding your mount to move E AFTING 
Shield Block 1 - Ward off a blow with your shield p TREASURE 
Toughness 1 — Increase your maximum HP and reduce the DCs of recovery checks | 

Weapon Proficiency 1 = Become trained in a weapon type 

Ancestral Paragon 3 — Gain a 1st-level ancestry feat 

Untrained Improvisation — 3 = Become more adept at using untrained skills 

Expeditious Search 7 Master Perception Search areas in half the time 

Incredible Investiture 1i Charisma 16 Invest up to 12 magic items 


TABLE 5-2: GENERAL SKILL FEATS 


Varying Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 
Assurance 1 Trained in at least one skill Receive a fixed result on a skill check 
Dubious Knowledge 1 Trained in Recall Knowledge skill Learn true and erroneous knowledge on failed check 
Quick Identification 1 Trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, Identify Magic in 1 minute or less 
or Religion 
Recognize Spell 1 Trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, Identify a spell as a reaction as it's being cast 
or Religion 
Skill Training 1 Intelligence 12 Become trained in a skill 
Trick Magic Item 1 Trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, Activate a magic item you normally cant activate 
or Religion 
Automatic Knowledge 2 Expert in Recall Knowledge action, Recall Knowledge as a free action once per round 
Assurance in the relevant skill 
Magical Shorthand 2 Expert in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, Learn spells quickly and at a reduced cost 
or Religion 
Quick Recognition 7 Master in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, Identify spells as a free action 
or Religion; Recognize Spell 
Acrobatics Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 


Cat Fall 1 Trained in Acrobatics Treat falls as shorter than they are 


— 


Quick Squeeze 1 
Steady Balance 1 
Nimble Crawl 2 
Kip Up 7 
Arcana Skill Feats Level 
Arcane Sense 1 


Unified Theory 15 
Athletics Skill Feats Level 
Combat Climber 1 


Hefty Hauler 1 
Quick Jump 1 
Titan Wrestler 1 
Underwater Marauder 1 
Powerful Leap 2 
Rapid Mantel 2 
Quick Climb 7 
Quick Swim 7 
Wall Jump 7 
Cloud Jump 15 
Crafting Skill Feats Level 
Alchemical Crafting 1 
Quick Repair 1 
Snare Crafting 1 
Specialty Crafting 1 
Magical Crafting 2 
Impeccable Crafting 7 
Inventor 7 
Craft Anything 15 
Deception Skill Feats Level 


Charming Liar 1 
Lengthy Diversion 1 
Lie to Me 1 
Confabulator 2 
Quick Disguise 2 
Slippery Secrets 7 
Diplomacy Skill Feats Level 
Bargain Hunter 1 
Group Impression 1 
Hobnobber 1 
Glad-Hand 2 
Shameless Request 7 


Legendary Negotiation 15 
Intimidation Skill Feats Level 


Group Coercion 1 
Intimidating Glare 1 
Quick Coercion 1 
Intimidating Prowess 2 
Lasting Coercion 2 
Battle Cry 7 
Terrified Retreat 7 
Scare to Death 15 
Lore Skill Feats Level 
Additional Lore 1 
Experienced Professional 1 
Unmistakable Lore 2 


Legendary Professional 15 


pe SE KE 


) CORE RULEBOOK 4 


Trained in Acrobatics 
Trained in Acrobatics 
Expert in Acrobatics 
Master in Acrobatics 
Prerequisites 

Trained in Arcana 
Legendary in Arcana 
Prerequisites 

Trained in Athletics 
Trained in Athletics 
Trained in Athletics 
Trained in Athletics 
Trained in Athletics 
Expert in Athletics 
Expert in Athletics 
Master in Athletics 
Master in Athletics 
Master in Athletics 
Legendary in Athletics 
Prerequisites 

Trained in Crafting 
Trained in Crafting 
Trained in Crafting 
Trained in Crafting 
Expert in Crafting 
Master in Crafting, Specialty Crafting 
Master in Crafting 
Legendary in Crafting 
Prerequisites 

Trained in Deception 
Trained in Deception 
Trained in Deception 
Expert in Deception 
Expert in Deception 
Master in Deception 
Prerequisites 

Trained in Diplomacy 
Trained in Diplomacy 
Trained in Diplomacy 
Expert in Diplomacy 
Master in Diplomacy 
Legendary in Diplomacy 
Prerequisites 

Trained in Intimidation 
Trained in Intimidation 
Trained in Intimidation 
Strength 16, expert in Intimidation 
Expert in Intimidation 
Master in Intimidation 
Master in Intimidation 
Legendary in Intimidation 
Prerequisites 

Trained in Lore 
Trained in Lore 

Expert in Lore 
Legendary in Lore 


Move swiftly as you Squeeze 

Maintain your balance in adverse conditions 
Crawl at a faster rate 

Stand up for free without triggering reactions 
Benefits 

Cast detect magic at will as an arcane innate spell 
Use Arcana for checks for all magical traditions 
Benefits 

Fight more effectively as you Climb 

Increase your Bulk limits by 2 

High Jump or Long Jump as a single action 
Disarm, Grapple, Shove, or Trip larger creatures 
Fight more effectively underwater 

Jump farther and higher 

Pull yourself onto ledges quickly 

Climb swiftly 

Swim quickly 

Jump off walls 

Jump impossible distances 

Benefits 

Craft alchemical items 

Repair items quickly 

Craft snares 

Gain bonuses to Craft certain items 

Craft magic items 

Craft items more efficiently 

Use Crafting to create item formulas 

Ignore most requirements for crafting items 
Benefits 

Improve a target's attitude with your lies 
Remain hidden after you Create a Diversion 
Use Deception to detect lies 

Reduce the bonuses against your repeated lies 
Set up a disguise in only half the time 

Evade attempts to uncover your true nature 
Benefits 

Earn Income by searching for deals 

Make an Impression on multiple targets at once 
Gather Information rapidly 

Make an Impression on a target you've just met 
Make Requests of others with lesser consequences 
Quickly parley with foes 

Benefits 

Coerce multiple targets simultaneously 
Demoralize a creature without speaking 

Coerce a creature quickly 

Gain a bonus to physically Demoralize a target 
Coerce a target into helping you longer 
Demoralizes foes when you roll for initiative 
Cause foes you Demoralize to flee 

Scare a target so much, they might die 

Benefits 

Become trained in another Lore subcategory 
Prevent critical failures when Earning Income 
Recall Knowledge about your Lore more effectively 
Gain renown for your Lore 


Medicine Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 

Battle Medicine 1 Trained in Medicine Heal yourself or an ally in battle 

Continual Recovery 2 Expert in Medicine Treat Wounds on a patient more often 

Robust Recovery 2 Expert in Medicine Greater benefits from Treat Disease and Treat Poison 

Ward Medic 2 Expert in Medicine Treat several patients at once 

Legendary Medic 15 Legendary in Medicine Remove disease or the blinded, deafened, doomed, or 
drained condition 

Nature Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 

Natural Medicine 1 Trained in Nature Use Nature to Treat Wounds 

Train Animal 1 Trained in Nature Teach an animal a trick 

Bonded Animal 2 Expert in Nature An animal becomes permanently helpful to you 

Occultism Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 

Oddity Identification 1 Trained in Occultism +2 to Occultism checks to Identify Magic with 
certain traits 

Bizarre Magic 7 Master in Occultism Your magic becomes more difficult to identify 

Performance Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 

Fascinating Performance 1 Trained in Performance Perform to fascinate observers 

Impressive Performance 1 Trained in Performance Make an Impression with Performance 

Virtuosic Performer 1 Trained in Performance +1 with a certain type of performance 

Legendary Performer 15 Legendary in Performance, Gain renown for your Performance 

Virtuosic Performer 

Religion Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 

Student of the Canon 1 Trained in Religion More accurately recognize the tenets of your faith 
or philosophy 

Divine Guidance 15 Legendary in Religion Find guidance in the writings of your faith 

Society Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 

Courtly Graces 1 Trained in Society Use Society to get along in noble society 

Multilingual 1 Trained in Society Learn two new languages 

Read Lips 1 Trained in Society Read the lips of people you can see 

Sign Language 1 Trained in Society Learn sign languages 

Streetwise 1 Trained in Society Use Society to Gather Information and Recall 
Knowledge 

Connections 2 Expert in Society, Courtly Graces Leverage your connections for favors and meetings 

Legendary Codebreaker 15 Legendary in Society Quickly Decipher Writing using Society 

Legendary Linguist 15 Legendary in Society, Multilingual Create pidgin languages to communicate with anyone 

Stealth Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 

Experienced Smuggler 1 Trained in Stealth Conceal items from observers more effectively 

Terrain Stalker 1 Trained in Stealth Sneak in certain terrain without attempting a check 

Quiet Allies 2 X Expert in Stealth Roll a single Stealth check when sneaking with allies 

Foil Senses 7 Master in Stealth Take precautions against special senses 

Swift Sneak 7 Master in Stealth Move your full Speed while you Sneak 

Legendary Sneak 15 Legendary in Stealth, Swift Sneak Hide and Sneak without cover or being concealed 

Survival Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 

Experienced Tracker 1 Trained in Survival Track at your full Speed at a -5 penalty 

Forager 1 Trained in Survival Forage for supplies to provide for multiple creatures 

Survey Wildlife 1 Trained in Survival Identify nearby creatures through signs and clues 

Terrain Expertise 1 Trained in Survival +1 to Survival checks in certain terrain 

Planar Survival 7 Master in Survival Use Survival to Subsist on different planes 

Legendary Survivalist 15 Legendary in Survival Survive extreme conditions 

Thievery Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits 

Pickpocket 1 Trained in Thievery Steal or Palm an Object more effectively 

Subtle Theft 1 Trained in Thievery Your thefts are harder to notice 

Wary Disarmament 2 Expert in Thievery +2 to AC or saves against devices or traps you trigger 
while disarming 

Quick Unlock 7 Master in Thievery Pick a Lock with 1 action 


Legendary Thief 15 Legendary in Thievery, Pickpocket Steal what would normally be impossible to steal 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


fr GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
- B TREASURE 


Tra 


| PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


errr” | 


ADDITIONAL LORE FEAT 1 


Prerequisites trained in Lore 
Your knowledge has expanded to encompass a new field. Choose 
an additional Lore skill subcategory. You become trained in it. At 
3rd, 7th, and 15th levels, you gain an additional skill increase 
you can apply only to the chosen Lore subcategory. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time 
you must select a new subcategory of Lore and you gain the 
additional skill increases to that subcategory for the listed levels. 


ADOPTED ANCESTRY 
| GENERAL | 

eal fully immersed in another ancestry's culture and 
traditions, whether born into them, earned through rite of 
passage, or bonded through a deep friendship or romance. 
Choose a common ancestry. You can select ancestry feats 
from the ancestry you chose, in addition to your character's 
own ancestry, as long as the ancestry feats don't require any 
physiological feature that you lack, as determined by the GM. 


ALCHEMICAL CRAFTING 

| oem | skiu 

Prerequisites trained in Crafting 
You can use the Craft activity to create alchemical items. When 
you select this feat, you immediately add the formulas for four 
common 1st-level alchemical items to your formula book. 


ANCESTRAL PARAGON FEAT3 
| 


Whether through instinct, study, or magic, you feel a deeper 
connection to your ancestry. You gain a 1st-level ancestry feat. 


ARCANE SENSE 

Prerequisites trained in Arcana 
Your study of magic allows you to instinctively sense its 
presence. You can cast 1st-level detect magic at will as an arcane 
innate spell. If you're a master in Arcana, the spell is heightened 
to 3rd level; if you're legendary, it is heightened to 4th level. 


ARMOR PROFICIENCY 
You become trained in light armor. If you already were trained 
in light armor, you gain training in medium armor. If you were 
trained in both, you become trained in heavy armor. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time, 
you become trained in the next type of armor above. 


ASSURANCE 


| FORTUNE | GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in at least one skill 

Even in the worst circumstances, you can perform basic tasks. 
Choose a skill you're trained in. You can forgo rolling a skill check 
for that skill to instead receive a result of 10 + your proficiency 
bonus (do not apply any other bonuses, penalties, or modifiers). 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time, 
choose a different skill and gain the benefits for that skill. 


AUTOMATIC KNOWLEDGE FEAT 2 


GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites expert in a skill with the Recall Knowledge 
action, Assurance in that skill 

You know basic facts off the top of your head. Choose a skill 
you're an expert in that has the Recall Knowledge action and 
for which you have the Assurance feat. You can use the Recall 
Knowledge action with that skill as a free action once per round. 
If you do, you must use Assurance on the skill check. 

Special You can select this feat multiple times, choosing a 
different skill each time. You can use Automatic Knowledge 
with any skills you have chosen, but you can still use Automatic 
Knowledge only once per round. 


BARGAIN HUNTER 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy 

You can Earn Income (page 236) using Diplomacy, spending your 
days hunting for bargains and reselling at a profit. You can also 
spend time specifically sniffing out a great bargain on an item; 
this works as if you were using Earn Income with Diplomacy, 
except instead of gaining money, you purchase the item at a 
discount equal to the money you would have gained, gaining 
the item for free if your earned income equals or exceeds its 
cost. Finally, if you select Bargain Hunter during character 
creation at 1st level, you start play with an additional 2 gp. 


BATTLE CRY FEAT 7 
| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites master in Intimidation 

When you roll initiative, you can yell a mighty battle cry and 
Demoralize an observed foe as a free action. If you're legendary 
in Intimidation, you can use a reaction to Demoralize your foe 
when you critically succeed at an attack roll. 


BATTLE MEDICINE *$ 


| GENERAL | HEALING || MANIPULATE | SKILL 

Prerequisites trained in Medicine 

Requirements You're holding or wearing healer's tools (page 209). 
You can patch up wounds, even in combat. Attempt a Medicine 
check with the same DC as for Treat Wounds and restore the 
corresponding amount of HP; this doesn't remove the wounded 
condition. As with Treat Wounds, you can attempt checks 
against higher DCs if you have the minimum proficiency rank. 
The target is then temporarily immune to your Battle Medicine 
for 1 day. 


BIZARRE MAGIC 

Prerequisites master in Occultism 
You can draw upon strange variations in your spellcasting, 
whether or not you can cast occult spells. The DCs to Recognize 
Spells you cast and Identify Magic you use increase by 5. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 7 


BONDED ANIMAL 


FEAT 2 


Prerequisites expert in Nature 
You forge strong connections with animals. You can spend 7 
days of downtime regularly interacting with a normal animal 
(not a companion or other special animal) that is friendly or 
helpful to you. After this duration, attempt a DC 20 Nature 
check. If successful, you bond with the animal. The animal 
is permanently helpful to you, unless you do something 
egregious to break your bond. A helpful animal is easier to 
direct, as described under Command an Animal on page 249. 
Bonding with a new animal ends any previous bond you had. 
You can't have both a bonded animal and an animal companion 
(though you can have both a bonded animal and a familiar). 


BREATH CONTROL FEAT 1 
You have incredible breath control, which grants you 
advantages when air is hazardous or sparse. You can hold your 
breath for 25 times as long as usual before suffocating. You 
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against inhaled 
threats, such as inhaled poisons, and if you roll a success on 
such a saving throw, you get a critical success instead. 


CANNY ACUMEN 


Your avoidance or observation is beyond the ken of most in 


FEAT 1 


your profession. Choose Fortitude saves, Reflex saves, Will 
saves, or Perception. You become an expert in your choice. At 
17th level, you become a master in your choice. 


CAT FALL 

Prerequisites trained in Acrobatics 
Your catlike aerial acrobatics allow you to cushion your 
falls. Treat falls as 10 feet shorter. If you're an expert in 
Acrobatics, treat falls as 25 feet shorter. If you’re a master in 
Acrobatics, treat them as 50 feet shorter. If you’re legendary 
in Acrobatics, you always land on your feet and don't take 
damage, regardless of the distance of the fall. 


CHARMING LIAR 

Prerequisites trained in Deception 
Your charm allows you to win over those you lie to. When 
you get a critical success using the Lie action, the target's 
attitude toward you improves by one step, as though you'd 
succeeded at using Diplomacy to Make an Impression. This 
works only once per conversation, and if you critically 
succeed against multiple targets using the same result, you 
choose one creature's attitude to improve. You must be lying 
to impart seemingly important information, inflate your 
status, or ingratiate yourself, which trivial or irrelevant lies 
cant achieve. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


" 
tll 
m “oy 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 


SKILLS 


EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


j MECHRUAPIN darted I cU " 
4 
Ber 
“J $ 


ieee ne mco | 


JATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
Se re SEE EE ri 


CLOUD JUMP 
ENETS 
Prerequisites legendary in Athletics 
You unparalleled athletic skill allows you to jump impossible 
distances. Triple the distance you Long Jump (so you could jump 
60 feet on a successful DC 20 check). When you High Jump, use 
the calculation for a Long Jump but dont triple the distance. 
You can jump a distance greater than your Speed by spending 
additional actions when you Long Jump or High Jump. For each 
additional action spent, add your Speed to the limit on how far 
you can Leap. 


COMBAT CLIMBER 
[cener f sk 

Prerequisites trained in Athletics 
Your techniques allow you to fight as you climb. You're not 
flat-footed while Climbing and can Climb with a hand occupied. 
You must still use another hand and both legs to Climb. 


CONFABULATOR 

Í GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites expert in Deception 
Even when caught in falsehoods, you pile lie upon lie. Reduce the 
circumstance bonus a target gains for your previous attempts 
to Create a Diversion or Lie to it from +4 to +2. If you're a master 
in Deception, reduce the bonus to +1, and if you're legendary, 
your targets don't get these bonuses at all. 


CONNECTIONS 

Prerequisites expert in Society, Courtly Graces 
You have social connections you can leverage to trade favors or 
meet important people. When you're in an area with connections 
(typically a settlement where you've spent downtime building 
connections, or possibly another area in the same nation), you 
can attempt a Society check to arrange a meeting with an 
important political figure or ask for a favor in exchange for a 
later favor of your contact's choice. The GM decides the DC 
based on the difficulty of the favor and the figures prominence. 


CONTINUAL RECOVERY FEAT2 
Prerequisites expert in Medicine 

You zealously monitor a patient's progress to administer 
treatment faster. When you Treat Wounds, your patient 
becomes immune for only 10 minutes instead of 1 hour. This 
applies only to your Treat Wounds activities, not any other the 
patient receives. 


COURTLY GRACES 

Prerequisites trained in Society 
You were raised among the nobility or have learned proper 
etiquette and bearing, allowing you to present yourself as a 
noble and play games of influence and politics. You can use 
Society to Make an Impression on a noble, as well as with 


FEAT 15 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 1 


Impersonate to pretend to be a noble if you aren't one. If you 
want to impersonate a specific noble, you still need to use 
Deception to Impersonate normally, and to Lie when necessary. 


CRAFT ANYTHING FEAT 15 
Prerequisites legendary in Crafting 

You can find ways to craft just about anything, despite 
restrictions. As long as you have the appropriate Crafting skill 
feat (such as Magical Crafting for magic items) and meet the 
items level and proficiency requirement, you ignore just about 
any other requirement, such as being of a specific ancestry or 
providing spells. The only exceptions are requirements that add 
to the item's cost, including castings of spells that themselves 
have a cost, and requirements of special items such as the 
philosopher's stone that have exclusive means of access and 
Crafting. The GM decides whether you can ignore a requirement. 


FEAT 1 


DIEHARD 
It takes more to kill you than most. You die from the dying 
condition at dying 5, rather than dying 4. 


DIVINE GUIDANCE 

Prerequisites legendary in Religion 
You're so immersed in divine scripture that you find meaning 
and guidance in your texts in any situation. Spend 10 minutes 
Deciphering Writing on religious scriptures of your deity 
or philosophy while thinking about a particular problem or 
conundrum you face, and then attempt a Religion check (DC 
determined by the GM). If you succeed, you unearth a relevant 
passage, parable, or aphorism that can help you move forward 
or change your thinking to help solve your conundrum. For 
example, the GM might provide you with a cryptic poem or hint 
that can guide you to the next step of solving your problem. 


DUBIOUS KNOWLEDGE FEAT 1 
Prerequisites trained in a skill with the Recall Knowledge action 
You're a treasure trove of information, but not all of it comes 
from reputable sources. When you fail (but don’t critically fail) 
a Recall Knowledge check using any skill, you learn a bit of 
true knowledge and a bit of erroneous knowledge, but you 
dont have any way to differentiate which is which. 


EXPEDITIOUS SEARCH 
Prerequisites master in Perception 
You have a system that lets you search at great speed, finding 
details and secrets twice as quickly as others can. When 
Searching, you take half as long as usual to Search a given 
area. This means that while exploring, you double the Speed 
you can move while ensuring you've Searched an area before 
walking into it (up to half your Speed). If you're legendary in 
Perception, you instead Search areas four times as quickly. 


FEAT 15 


FEAT7 


EXPERIENCED PROFESSIONAL 


| ceNeRaL | skiu. | 

Prerequisites trained in Lore 

You carefully safeguard your professional endeavors to prevent 
disaster. When you use Lore to Earn Income, if you roll a critical 
failure, you instead get a failure. If you're an expert in Lore, you 
gain twice as much income from a failed check to Earn Income, 
unless it was originally a critical failure. 


EXPERIENCED SMUGGLER 
RAL | 

Prerequisites trained in Stealth 
You often smuggle things past the authorities. When the GM 
rolls your Stealth check to see if a passive observer notices a 
small item you have concealed, the GM uses the number rolled 
or 10—whichever is higher—as the result of your die roll, adding it 
to your Stealth modifier to determine your Stealth check result. 
If you're a master in Stealth, the GM uses the number rolled or 
15, and if you're legendary in Stealth, you automatically succeed 
at hiding a small concealed item from passive observers. This 
provides no benefits when a creature attempts a Perception 
check while actively searching you for hidden items. Due to 
your smuggling skill, you're more likely to find more lucrative 
smuggling jobs when using Underworld Lore to Earn Income. 


EXPERIENCED TRACKER FEAT1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


at a Fortitude save against an ongoing disease or poison, you 
reduce its stage by 2, or by 1 against a virulent disease or poison. 
Each critical success you achieve against an ongoing disease or 
poison reduces its stage by 3, or by 2 against a virulent disease 
or poison. In addition, you reduce the severity of your drained 
condition by 2 when you rest for a night instead of by 1. 


FEATHER STEP 


Prerequisites Dexterity 14 
You step carefully and quickly. You can Step into difficult terrain. 


FEAT 1 


FLEET FEAT 1 
| GENERAL | 

You move more quickly on foot. Your Speed increases by 5 feet. 
FOIL SENSES FEAT 7 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites master in Stealth 

You are adept at foiling creatures’ special senses and cautious 
enough to safeguard against them at all times. Whenever you 
use the Avoid Notice, Hide, or Sneak actions, you are always 
considered to be taking precautions against special senses 
(see the Detecting with Other Senses sidebar on page 465). 


FORAGER FEAT 1 


| GENERAL | SKILL J 
Prerequisites trained in Survival 


Í GENERAL | skit | 


Prerequisites trained in Survival 


Tracking is second nature to you, and when necessary you 
can follow a trail without pause. You can Track while moving 
at full Speed by taking a -5 penalty to your Survival check. 
If you're a master in Survival, you don't take the -5 penalty. 
If you're legendary in Survival, you no longer need to roll a 
new Survival check every hour when tracking, though you still 
need to roll whenever there are significant changes in the trail. 


FASCINATING PERFORMANCE FEAT1 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites trained in Performance 
When you Perform, compare your result to the Will DC of one 
observer. If you succeed, the target is fascinated by you for 1 
round. If the observer is in a situation that demands immediate 
attention, such as combat, you must critically succeed to fascinate 
it and the Perform action gains the incapacitation trait. You must 
choose which creature you're trying to fascinate before you roll 
your check, and the target is then temporarily immune for 1 hour. 
If you're an expert in Performance, you can fascinate up 
to four observers; if you're a master, you can fascinate up to 
10 observers; and if you're legendary, you can fascinate any 
number of observers at the same time. 


FAST RECOVERY 


ETW 

Prerequisites Constitution 14 

Your body quickly bounces back from afflictions. You regain 
twice as many Hit Points from resting. Each time you succeed 


FEAT 1 


While using Survival to Subsist, if you roll any result worse than 
a success, you get a success. On a success, you can provide 
subsistence living for yourself and four additional creatures, 
and on a critical success, you can take care of twice as many 
creatures as on a success. 

Each time your proficiency rank in Survival increases, double 
the number of additional creatures you can take care of on a 
success (to eight if you're an expert, 16 if you're a master, or 32 
if you're legendary). You can choose to care for half the number 
of additional creatures and provide a comfortable living instead 
of subsistence living. 

Multiple smaller creatures or creatures with significantly 
smaller appetites than a human are counted as a single creature 
for this feat, and larger creatures or those with significantly 
greater appetites each count as multiple creatures. The GM 
determines how much a non-human creature needs to eat. 


GLAD-HAND FEAT 2 


Í GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites expert in Diplomacy 

First impressions are your strong suit. When you meet 
someone in a casual or social situation, you can immediately 
attempt a Diplomacy check to Make an Impression on that 
creature rather than needing to converse for 1 minute. You 
take a -5 penalty to the check. If you fail or critically fail, you 
can engage in 1 minute of conversation and attempt a new 
check at the end of that time rather than accepting the failure 


or critical failure result. 


FEATS — 


OQ" 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 


= THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


; PLAYING THE 
GAME 


" 


Tra 


JATHFIN ER ) CORE EUIEBOOK 3 
M — M —————— 8 
GROUP COERCION FEAT 1 


Prerequisites trained in Intimidation 

When you Coerce, you can compare your Intimidation check 
result to the Will DCs of two targets instead of one. It's possible 
to get a different degree of success for each target. The number 
of targets you can Coerce in a single action increases to four if 
you're an expert, 10 if you're a master, and 25 if you're legendary. 


GROUP IMPRESSION FEAT1 
Í GENERAL | skul | 

Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy 

When you Make an Impression, you can compare your 
Diplomacy check result to the Will DCs of two targets instead 
of one. It’s possible to get a different degree of success for 
each target. The number of targets increases to four if you're 
an expert, 10 if you're a master, and 25 if you're legendary. 


HEFTY HAULER FEAT1 
ENETS 

Prerequisites trained in Athletics 

You can carry more than your frame implies. Increase your 
maximum and encumbered Bulk limits by 2. 


HOBNOBBER 

Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy 
You are skilled at learning information through conversation. 
The Gather Information exploration activity takes you half as 
long as normal (typically reducing the time to 1 hour). If you're a 
master in Diplomacy and you Gather Information at the normal 
speed, when you attempt to do so and roll a critical failure, you 
get a failure instead. There is still no guarantee that a rumor you 
learn with Gather Information is accurate. 


IMPECCABLE CRAFTING 


Prerequisites master in Crafting, Specialty Crafting 

You craft flawless creations with great efficiency. Whenever you 
roll a success at a Crafting check to make an item of the type you 
chose with Specialty Crafting, you get a critical success instead. 


IMPRESSIVE PERFORMANCE FEAT 1 
KE 


Prerequisites trained in Performance 
Your performances inspire admiration and win you fans. You can 
Make an Impression using Performance instead of Diplomacy. 


INCREDIBLE INITIATIVE FEAT 1 
Kr. 


You react more quickly than others can. You gain a *2 
circumstance bonus to initiative rolls. 


INCREDIBLE INVESTITURE 


Prerequisites Charisma 16 


FEAT 1 


FEAT7 


FEAT 11 


You have an incredible ability to invest more magic items. 
Increase your limit on invested items from 10 to 12. 


INTIMIDATING GLARE 

Prerequisites trained in Intimidation 
You can Demoralize with a mere glare. When you do, Demoralize 
loses the auditory trait and gains the visual trait, and you don't 
take a penalty if the creature doesn't understand your language. 


INTIMIDATING PROWESS FEAT2 
Prerequisites Strength 16, expert in Intimidation 

In situations where you can physically menace the target when 
you Coerce or Demoralize, you gain a *1 circumstance bonus 
to your Intimidation check and you ignore the penalty for not 
sharing a language. If your Strength score is 20 or higher and 
you are a master in Intimidation, this bonus increases to +2. 


INVENTOR FEAT7 


DOWNTIME | GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites master in Crafting 

You are a genius at Crafting, easily able to determine how things 
are made and create new inventions. You can spend downtime 
to invent a common formula that you don't know. This works 
just like the Craft activity: you spend half the Price of the 
formula up front, attempt a Crafting check, and on a success 
either finish the formula by paying the difference or work for 
longer to decrease the Price. The difference is that you spend 
the additional time in research, design, and development, rather 
than in creating an item. Once it’s complete, you add the new 
formula you invented to your formula book. 


KIP UP 

GENERAL | SKILL 

Prerequisites master in Acrobatics 
You stand up. This movement doesnt trigger reactions. 


LASTING COERCION FEAT 2 
Prerequisites expert in Intimidation 

When you successfully Coerce someone, the maximum time 
they comply increases to a week, still determined by the GM. 
If you're legendary, the maximum increases to a month. 


LEGENDARY CODEBREAKER FEAT 15 
Prerequisites legendary in Society 

Your skill with languages and codes is so great that you 
can decipher information with little more than a quick read 
through a text. You can Decipher Writing using Society 
while reading at normal speed. If you slow down and spend 
the full amount of time that's ordinarily required and roll a 
success, you get a critical success; if you critically succeed 
while spending the normal amount of time, you gain a nearly 
word-for-word understanding of the document. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 7 


LEGENDARY LINGUIST FEAT 15 


LEGENDARY SNEAK FEAT 15 


GENERAL f SKILL | 
Prerequisites legendary in Society, Multilingual 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites legendary in Stealth, Swift Sneak 


You're so skilled with languages you can create a pidgin instantly. 
You can always talk to any creature that has a language—even a 
language you don't know-by creating a new pidgin language that 
uses simplified terms and conveys basic concepts. To do so, you 
must first understand at least what medium of communication 
the creature uses (speech, sign language, and so on). 


LEGENDARY MEDIC FEAT 15 


You're always sneaking unless you choose to be seen, even 
when there's nowhere to hide. You can Hide and Sneak even 
without cover or being concealed. When you employ an 
exploration tactic other than Avoiding Notice, you also gain 
the benefits of Avoiding Notice unless you choose not to. See 
page 479 for more information about exploration tactics. 


LEGENDARY SURVIVALIST FEAT 15 


GENERAL | SKILL J 
Prerequisites legendary in Medicine 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites legendary in Survival 


You've discovered medical breakthroughs or techniques that 
achieve miraculous results. Once per day for each target, you can 
spend 1 hour treating that target and attempt a Medicine check 
to remove a disease or the blinded, deafened, doomed, or drained 
condition. Use the DC of the disease or of the spell or effect that 
created the condition. If the effect’s source is an artifact, above 
20th level, or similarly powerful, increase the DC by 10. 


LEGENDARY NEGOTIATION +99? 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites legendary in Diplomacy 

You can negotiate incredibly quickly in adverse situations. You 
attempt to Make an Impression and then Request your opponent 
cease their current activity and engage in negotiations. You 
take a -5 penalty to your Diplomacy check. The GM sets the 
DC of the Request based on the circumstances—it's generally 
at least a very hard DC of the creature's level. Some creatures 
might simply refuse, and even those who agree to parley might 
ultimately find your arguments lacking and return to violence. 


LEGENDARY PERFORMER FEAT 15 


GENERAL | SKILL 
Prerequisites legendary in Performance, Virtuosic Performer 
Your fame has spread throughout the lands. NPCs who succeed 
at a DC 10 Society check to Recall Knowledge have heard of you 
and usually have an attitude toward you one step better than 
normal, depending on your reputation and the NPC’s disposition. 
For instance, if you're well-known for cruel and demanding 
behavior, creatures might be intimidated by you, rather than be 
friendly toward you. When you Earn Income with Performance, 
you attract higher-level audiences than your location would 
allow, as audiences flock to see you. For instance, rulers and 
angels might travel to your small tower in the woods to hear 
you perform. Typically, this increases the audiences available by 
2 levels or more, determined by the GM. 


LEGENDARY PROFESSIONAL 


Í GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites legendary in Lore 

Your fame has spread throughout the lands (for instance, if 
you have Warfare Lore, you might be a legendary general or 
tactician). This works as Legendary Performer above, except 
you gain higher-level jobs when you Earn Income with Lore. 


FEAT 15 


FEAT 15 


You can survive indefinitely without food or water and can 
endure severe, extreme, and incredible cold and heat without 
taking damage from doing so. 


LEGENDARY THIEF 

| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites legendary in Thievery, Pickpocket 
Your ability to Steal defies belief. You can attempt to Steal 
something that is actively wielded or that would be extremely 
noticeable or time consuming to remove (like worn shoes or 
armor). You must do so slowly and carefully, spending at least 1 
minute (and significantly longer for items that are normally time 
consuming to remove, like armor). Throughout this duration you 
must have some means of staying hidden, such as the cover of 
darkness or a bustling crowd. You take a -5 penalty to your 
Thievery check. Even if you succeed, if the item is extremely 
prominent-like a suit of full plate armor—onlookers will quickly 
notice it's gone after you steal it. 


LENGTHY DIVERSION 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in Deception 

When you critically succeed to Create a Diversion, you continue 
to remain hidden after the end of your turn. This effect lasts for 
an amount of time that depends on the diversion and situation, 
as determined by the GM (minimum 1 additional round). 


LIE TO ME 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in Deception 

You can use Deception to weave traps to trip up anyone trying 
to deceive you. If you can engage in conversation with someone 
trying to Lie to you, use your Deception DC if it is higher than 
your Perception DC to determine whether they succeed. This 
doesnt apply if you don't have a back-and-forth dialogue, such 
as when someone attempts to Lie during a long speech. 


MAGICAL CRAFTING 

| GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites expert in Crafting 
You can Craft magic items, though some have other requirements, 
as listed in Chapter 11. When you select this feat, you gain 
formulas for four common magic items of 2nd level or lower. 


FEAT 15 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 2 


THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


ieee ne umo | 


THFIND! CORE RULEBOOK j 
DESEE EE e ed | 


MAGICAL SHORTHAND 
Prerequisites expert in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion 
Learning spells comes easily to you. If you're an expert in a 
traditions associated skill, you take 10 minutes per spell level to 
learn a spell of that tradition, rather than 1 hour per spell level. If 
you fail to learn the spell, you can try again after 1 week or after 
you gain a level, whichever comes first. If you're a master in the 
traditions associated skill, learning a spell takes 5 minutes per 
spell level, and if you're legendary, it takes 1 minute per spell level. 
You can use downtime to learn and inscribe new spells. This works 
as if you were using Earn Income with the tradition's associated 
skill, but instead of gaining money, you choose a spell available to 
you to learn and gain a discount on learning it, learning it for free 
if your earned income equals or exceeds its cost. 


MULTILINGUAL 


Í GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites trained in Society 
You easily pick up new languages. You learn two new languages, 
chosen from common languages, uncommon languages, and 
any others you have access to. You learn an additional language 
if you are or become a master in Society and again if you are or 
become legendary. 

Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time, 
you learn additional languages. 


NATURAL MEDICINE 

Prerequisites trained in Nature 
You can apply natural cures to heal your allies. You can use 
Nature instead of Medicine to Treat Wounds. If you're in the 
wilderness, you might have easier access to fresh ingredients, 
allowing you to gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your check to 
Treat Wounds using Nature, subject to the GM's determination. 


NIMBLE CRAWL FEAT2 
KNETS 

Prerequisites expert in Acrobatics 

You can Crawl incredibly swiftly—up to half your Speed, rather 
than 5 feet. If you're a master in Acrobatics, you can Crawl at full 
Speed, and if you're legendary, you aren't flat-footed while prone. 


ODDITY IDENTIFICATION FEAT 1 
Prerequisites trained in Occultism 

You have a sense for spells that twist minds or reveal secrets. You 
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Occultism checks to Identify 
Magic with the mental, possession, prediction, or scrying traits. 


PICKPOCKET FEAT 1 
Prerequisites trained in Thievery 

You can Steal or Palm an Object that's closely guarded, such as 
in a pocket, without taking the -5 penalty. You can't steal objects 
that would be extremely noticeable or time consuming to remove 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


(like worn shoes or armor or actively wielded objects). If you're a 
master in Thievery, you can attempt to Steal from a creature in 
combat or otherwise on guard. When doing so, Stealing requires 
2 manipulate actions instead of 1, and you take a -5 penalty. 


PLANAR SURVIVAL FEAT 7 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites master in Survival 

You can Subsist using Survival on different planes, even those 
without resources or natural phenomena you normally need. 
For instance, you can forage for food even if the plane lacks 
food that could normally sustain you. A success on your check 
to Subsist can also reduce the damage dealt by the plane, at the 
GM's discretion. 


POWERFUL LEAP 
Prerequisites expert in Athletics 
When you Leap, you can jump 5 feet up with a vertical Leap, and 
you increase the distance you can jump horizontally by 5 feet. 


QUICK CLIMB FEAT 7 


| GENERAL | SKILL 
Prerequisites master in Athletics 
When Climbing, you move 5 more feet on a success and 10 more 
feet on a critical success, to a maximum of your Speed. 

If you're legendary in Athletics, you gain a climb Speed 
equal to your Speed. 


QUICK COERCION 

| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in Intimidation 
You can bully others with just a few choice implications. You 
can Coerce a creature after 1 round of conversation instead 
of 1 minute. You still can't Coerce a creature in the midst of 
combat, or without engaging in a conversation. 


QUICK DISGUISE 

GENERAL | SKILL 

Prerequisites expert in Deception 
You can set up a disguise in half the usual time (generally 5 
minutes). If you're a master, it takes one-tenth the usual time 
(usually 1 minute). If you're legendary, you can create a full 
disguise and Impersonate as a 3-action activity. 


QUICK IDENTIFICATION 


Prerequisites trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism or Religion 
You can Identify Magic swiftly. You take only 1 minute when using 
Identify Magic to determine the properties of an item, ongoing 
effect, or location, rather than 10 minutes. If you're a master, it 
takes a 3-action activity, and if you're legendary, it takes 1 action. 


QUICK JUMP FEAT 1 


Prerequisites trained in Athletics 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 1 


You can use High Jump and Long Jump as a single action 
instead of 2 actions. If you do, you dont perform the initial 
Stride (nor do you fail if you don't Stride 10 feet). 


QUICK een ON FEAT 7 


TETE master i in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion; 
Recognize Spell 

You Recognize Spells swiftly. Once per round, you can Recognize 

a Spell using a skill in which you're a master as a free action. 


FEAT 1 


QUICK REPAIR 


Prerequisites trained in Crafting 
You take 1 minute to Repair an item. If you're a master in 
Crafting, it takes 3 actions. If you're legendary, it takes 1 action. 


QUICK SQUEEZE FEAT 1 


Í GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites trained in Acrobatics 


You Squeeze 5 feet per round (10 feet on a critical success). 
If you're legendary in Acrobatics, you Squeeze at full Speed. 


QUICK SWIM FEAT 7 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites master in Athletics 


You Swim 5 feet farther on a success and 10 feet farther on a 
critical success, to a maximum of your Speed. If you're legendary 
in Athletics, you gain a swim Speed equal to your Speed. 


QUICK UNLOCK FEAT7 
Í GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites master in Thievery 

You can Pick a Lock using 1 action instead of 2. 

QUIET ALLIES FEAT 2 


GENERAL | SKILL J 
Prerequisites expert in Stealth 


You're skilled at moving with a group. When you are Avoiding 
Notice and your allies Follow the Expert, you and those allies can 
roll a single Stealth check, using the lowest modifier, instead of 
rolling separately. This doesn't apply for initiative rolls. 


zu ADM 


FEAT 2 


Prerequisités cit expert in Athletics 

You easily pull yourself onto ledges. When you Grab an Edge, 
you can pull yourself onto that surface and stand. You can use 
Athletics instead of a Reflex save to Grab an Edge. 


READ LIPS 


FEAT1 


Í GENERAL | SKILL | 
Prerequisites trained in Society 


You can read lips of others nearby who you can clearly see. 
When you're at your leisure, you can do this automatically. In 
encounter mode or when attempting a more difficult feat of 


lipreading, you're fascinated and flat-footed during each round 
in which you focus on lip movements, and you must succeed 
at a Society check (DC determined by the GM) to successfully 
read someone's lips. In either case, the language read must be 
one that you know. 


RECOGNIZE SPELL 2 


SECRET | SKILL | 


FEAT 1 


| GENERAL | 

Prerequisites trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion 

Trigger A creature within line of sight casts a spell that you 
don't have prepared or in your spell repertoire, or a trap 
or similar object casts such a spell. You must be aware of 
the casting. 


If you are trained in the appropriate skill for the spell's 
tradition and it's a common spell of 2nd level or lower, you 
automatically identify it (you still roll to attempt to get a 
critical success, but can't get a worse result than success). The 
highest level of spell you automatically identify increases to 
4 if you're an expert, 6 if you're a master, and 10 if you're 


[^ 
.. THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


| pne THE 
GAME 


eae mo | 


t) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
T m a ed 


legendary. The GM rolls a secret Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or 

Religion check, whichever corresponds to the tradition of the 

spell being cast. If you're not trained in the skill, you can't get 

a result better than failure. 

Critical Success You correctly recognize the spell and gain a 
*1 circumstance bonus to your saving throw or your AC 
against it. 

Success You correctly recognize the spell. 

Failure You fail to recognize the spell. 

Critical Failure You misidentify the spell as another spell 
entirely, of the GM's choice. 


RIDE 
EN 
When you Command an Animal you're mounted on to take a 
move action (such as Stride), you automatically succeed instead 
of needing to attempt a check. Any animal you're mounted on 
acts on your turn, like a minion. If you Mount an animal in the 
middle of an encounter, it skips its next turn and then acts on 
your next turn. Page 249 has more on Command an Animal. 


ROBUST RECOVERY FEAT 2 


Í GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites expert in Medicine 

You learned folk medicine to help recover from diseases and 
poison, and using it diligently has made you especially resilient. 
When you Treat a Disease or a Poison, or someone else uses 
one of these actions on you, increase the circumstance bonus 
granted on a success to +4, and if the result of the patient's 
saving throw is a success, the patient gets a critical success. 


SCARE TO DEATH *> FEAT 15 


FEAT 1 


Prerequisites legendary in Intimidation 


You can frighten foes so much, they might die. Attempt an 
Intimidation check against the Will DC of a living creature within 
30 feet of you that you sense or observe and who can sense or 
observe you. If the target can’t hear you or doesn't understand 
the language you are speaking, you take a -4 circumstance 
penalty. The creature is temporarily immune for 1 minute. 
Critical Success The target must attempt a Fortitude save 
against your Intimidation DC. On a critical failure, it dies. On 
any other result, it becomes frightened 2 and is fleeing for 1 
round. The critical failure effect has the death trait. 
Success The target becomes frightened 2. 
Failure The target becomes frightened 1. 
Critical Failure The target is unaffected. 


SHAMELESS REQUEST 

| cenerat | skiu 

Requirements master in Diplomacy 
You can downplay the consequences or outrageousness of 
your requests using sheer brazenness and charm. When you 
Request something, you reduce any DC increases for making an 
outrageous request by 2, and if you roll a critical failure for your 
Request, you get a failure instead. While this means you can 


FEAT 7 


never cause your target to reduce their attitude toward you by 
making a Request, they eventually tire of requests, even though 
they still have a positive attitude toward you. 


SHIELD BLOCK 2 

Trigger While you have your shield raised, you would take 
damage from a physical attack. 

You snap your shield in place to ward off a blow. Your shield 

prevents you from taking an amount of damage up to the 

shield’s Hardness. You and the shield each take any remaining 

damage, possibly breaking or destroying the shield. 


SIGN LANGUAGE 


GENERAL | SKILL 

Prerequisites trained in Society 

You learn the sign languages associated with the languages 
you know, allowing you to sign and understand signs. Sign 
languages typically require both hands to convey more complex 
concepts, and they are visual rather than auditory. 

Sign language is difficult to understand during combat due 
to the level of attention needed, unlike basic gestures like 
pointing at a foe to suggest a target. Sign language is hard to 
use in areas of low visibility, just like speech is difficult in a 
noisy environment. 


SKILL TRAINING 
GENERAL | skiu | 
Prerequisites Intelligence 12 
You become trained in the skill of your choice. 
Special You can select this feat multiple times, choosing a 
new skill to become trained in each time. 


SLIPPERY SECRETS 
GENERAL | ski | 

Prerequisites master in Deception 
You elude and evade attempts to uncover your true nature or 
intentions. When a spell or magical effect tries to read your mind, 
detect whether you are lying, or reveal your alignment, you can 
attempt a Deception check against the spell or effect's DC. If you 
succeed, the effect reveals nothing. 


SNARE CRAFTING 
Prerequisites trained in Crafting 
You can use the Craft activity to create snares, using the 
rules from page 244. When you select this feat, you add the 
formulas for four common snares to your formula book. 


SPECIALTY CRAFTING FEAT 1 


GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in Crafting 

Your training focused on Crafting one particular kind of item. 
Select one of the specialties listed on page 267; you gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to Crafting checks to Craft items of that 
type. If you are a master in Crafting, this bonus increases to +2. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 7 


FEAT 1 


If it's unclear whether the specialty applies, the GM decides. 
Some specialties might apply only partially. For example, if you 
were making a morningstar and had specialty in woodworking, 
the GM might give you half your bonus because the item 
requires both blacksmithing and woodworking. 


Specialty Applicable Items 


Alchemy" Alchemical items such as elixirs 

Artistry Fine art, including jewelry 

Blacksmithing ^ Durable metal goods, including metal armor 
Bookmaking Books and paper 

Glassmaking Glass, including glassware and windows 


Leatherworking Leather goods, including leather armor 


Pottery Ceramic goods 

Shipbuilding Ships and boats 
Stonemasonry Stone goods and structures 
Tailoring Clothing 

Weaving Textiles, baskets, and rugs 
Woodworking Wooden goods and structures 


* You must have the Alchemical Crafting skill feat to Craft 
alchemical items. 


STEADY BALANCE 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in Acrobatics 

You can keep your balance easily, even in adverse conditions. 
Whenever you roll a success using the Balance action, you 
get a critical success instead. You're not flat-footed while 
attempting to Balance on narrow surfaces and uneven 
ground. Thanks to your incredible balance, you can attempt 
an Acrobatics check instead of a Reflex save to Grab an Edge. 


STREETWISE FEAT 1 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in Society 

You know about life on the streets and feel the pulse of your 
local settlement. You can use your Society modifier instead 
of your Diplomacy modifier to Gather Information. In any 
settlement you frequent regularly, you can use the Recall 
Knowledge action with Society to know the same sorts of 
information that you could discover with Diplomacy to Gather 
Information. The DC is usually significantly higher, but you 
know the information without spending time gathering it. If 
you fail to recall the information, you can still subsequently 
attempt to Gather Information normally. 


STUDENT OF THE CANON 


| GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in Religion 

You've researched many faiths enough to recognize notions 
about them that are unlikely to be true. If you roll a critical failure 
at a Religion check to Decipher Writing of a religious nature or 
to Recall Knowledge about the tenets of faiths, you get a failure 
instead. When attempting to Recall Knowledge about the tenets 
of your own faith, if you roll a failure, you get a success instead, 
and if you roll a success, you get a critical success instead. 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 1 


SUBTLE THEFT 


Í GENERAL | skit | 

Prerequisites trained in Thievery 
When you successfully Steal something, observers (creatures 
other than the creature you stole from) take a -2 circumstance 
penalty to their Perception DCs to detect your theft. 
Additionally, if you first Create a Diversion using Deception, 
taking a single Palm an Object or Steal action doesn't end your 
undetected condition. 


SURVEY WILDLIFE 


Í GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in Survival 

You can study details in the wilderness to determine the 
presence of nearby creatures. You can spend 10 minutes 
assessing the area around you to find out what creatures 
are nearby, based on nests, scat, and marks on vegetation. 
Attempt a Survival check against a DC determined by the GM 
based on how obvious the signs are. On a success, you can 
attempt a Recall Knowledge check with a -2 penalty to learn 
more about the creatures just from these signs. If you're a 
master in Survival, you don't take the penalty. 


SWIFT SNEAK 


Í GENERAL | skit | 

Prerequisites master in Stealth 

You can move your full Speed when you Sneak. You can use Swift 
Sneak while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or Swimming instead 
of Striding if you have the corresponding movement type. 


TERRAIN EXPERTISE FEAT 1 
Í GENERAL | SKILL 
Prerequisites trained in Survival 
Your experience in navigating a certain type of terrain 
makes you supremely confident while doing so. You gain 
a +1 circumstance bonus to Survival checks in one of the 
following types of terrain, chosen when you select this feat: 
aquatic, arctic, desert, forest, mountain, plains, sky, swamp, 
or underground. 

Special You can select this feat more than once, choosing a 
different type of terrain each time. 


TERRAIN STALKER 


| GENERAL | SKILL 
Prerequisites trained in Stealth 
Select one type of difficult terrain from the following list: 
rubble, snow, or underbrush. While undetected by all 
non-allies in that type of terrain, you can Sneak without 
attempting a Stealth check as long as you move no more than 
5 feet and do not move within 10 feet of an enemy at any point 
during your movement. This also allows you to automatically 
approach creatures to within 15 feet while Avoiding Notice 
during exploration as long as they aren't actively Searching 
or on guard. 

Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time, 
choose a different type of terrain. 


FEAT7 


FEAT1 


|. THE AGE DF 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 


mu 


. LOST OMENS 


Ee PLAYING THE 
GAME 


r ij 


- GAME 


4 


d 


Tray 


PATHFINDER Gone Ha EBOOK 3 
——— Bei m . 
TERRIFIED RETREAT FEAT7 


Prerequisites master in Intimidation 
When you critically succeed at the Demoralize action, if the 
target's level is lower than yours, the target is fleeing for 1 round. 


TITAN WRESTLER FEAT1 
EKNETS 

Prerequisites trained in Athletics 

You can attempt to Disarm, Grapple, Shove, or Trip creatures 
up to two sizes larger than you, or up to three sizes larger than 
you if you're legendary in Athletics. 


TOUGHNESS 
| 


You can withstand more punishment than most before 
succumbing. Increase your maximum Hit Points by your level. 
You reduce the DC of recovery checks by 1 (page 459). 


FEAT 1 


TRAIN ANIMAL FEAT 1 


relevant tradition, use your level as your proficiency bonus and 

the highest of your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma modifiers. 

If you're a master in the appropriate skill for the item's tradition, 

you instead use the trained proficiency bonus, and if you're 

legendary, you instead use the expert proficiency bonus. 

Success For the rest of the current turn, you can spend actions 
to activate the item as if you could normally use it. 

Failure You can't use the item or try to trick it again this turn, 
but you can try again on subsequent turns. 

Critical Failure You can’t use the item, and you can't try to 
trick it again until your next daily preparations. 


UNDERWATER MARAUDER 


Prerequisites trained in Athletics 

You've learned to fight underwater. You are not flat-footed 
while in water, and you dont take the usual penalties for using 
a bludgeoning or slashing melee weapon in water. 


UNIFIED THEORY 


FEAT 1 


FEAT 15 


GENERAL | MANIPULATE | SKILL | 
Prerequisites trained in Nature 


| DOWNTIME | 


GENERAL | skiu. | 


Prerequisites legendary in Arcana 


You spend time teaching an animal to do a certain action. You 
can either select a basic action the animal already knows how to 
do (typically those listed in the Command an Animal action on 
page 249) or attempt to teach the animal a new basic action. The 
GM determines the DC of any check required and the amount 
of time the training takes (usually at least a week). It's usually 
impossible to teach an animal a trick that uses critical thinking. 
If you're expert, master, or legendary in Nature, you might be 
able to train more unusual creatures, at the GM's discretion. 
Success The animal learns the action. If it was an action the 
animal already knew, you can Command the Animal to take 
that action without attempting a Nature check. If it was a 
new basic action, add that action to the actions the animal 
can take when Commanded, but you must still roll. 
Failure The animal doesn't learn the trick. 


TRICK MAGIC ITEM *> FEAT 1 


You examine a magic item you normally couldnt use in an effort 
to fool it and activate it temporarily. For example, this might allow 
a fighter to cast a spell from a wand or allow a wizard to cast a 
spell that's not on the arcane list using a scroll. You must know 
what activating the item does, or you can't attempt to trick it. 

Attempt a check using the skill matching the item's magic 
tradition, or matching a tradition that has the spell on its list, 
if you're trying to cast a spell from the item. The relevant skills 
are Arcana for arcane, Nature for primal, Occultism for occult, 
Religion for divine, or any of the four for an item that has the 
magical trait and not a tradition trait. The GM determines the 
DC based on the item's level (possibly adjusted depending on 
the item or situation). 

If you activate a magic item that requires a spell attack roll 
or spell DC and you dont have the ability to cast spells of the 


You've started to make a meaningful connection about the 
common underpinnings of the four traditions of magic and 
magical essences, allowing you to understand them all through 
an arcane lens. Whenever you use a skill action or a skill feat 
that requires a Nature, Occultism, or Religion check, depending 
on the magic tradition, you can use Arcana instead. If you would 
normally take a penalty or have a higher DC for using Arcana 
on other magic (such as when using Identify Magic), you no 
longer do so. 


UNMISTAKABLE LORE 

Prerequisites expert in Lore 
You never get information about your areas of expertise wrong. 
When you Recall Knowledge using any Lore subcategory in 
which you're trained, if you roll a critical failure, you get a failure 
instead. If you're a master in a Lore subcategory, on a critical 
success, you gain even more information or context than usual. 


UNTRAINED IMPROVISATION FEAT3 
You've learned how to handle situations when you're out of 
your depth. Your proficiency bonus to untrained skill checks 
is equal to half your level instead of +0. If you're 7th level 
or higher, the bonus increases to your full level instead. This 
doesn't allow you to use the skill's trained actions. 


VIRTUOSIC PERFORMER 


GENERAL | SKILL | 

Prerequisites trained in Performance 

You have exceptional talent with one type of performance. You 
gain a +1 circumstance bonus when making a certain type of 
performance. If you are a master in Performance, this bonus 
increases to +2. Select one of the following specialties and apply 


FEAT 2 


FEAT 1 


the bonus when attempting Performance checks of that type. If 
it’s unclear whether the specialty applies, the GM decides. 


Specialty Examples 


Acting Drama, pantomime, puppetry 

Comedy Buffoonery, joke telling, limericks 

Dance Ballet, huara, jig, macru 

Keyboards Harpsichord, organ, piano 

Oratory Epic, ode, poetry, storytelling 

Percussion Chimes, drum, gong, xylophone 

Singing Ballad, chant, melody, rhyming 

Strings Fiddle, harp, lute, viol 

Winds Bagpipe, flute, recorder, trumpet 
WALL JUMP FEAT 7 


GENERAL f SKILL 


Prerequisites master in Athletics 
You can use your momentum from a jump to propel yourself 
off a wall. If you're adjacent to a wall at the end of a jump 
(whether performing a High Jump, Long Jump, or Leap), 
you don't fall as long as your next action is another jump. 
Furthermore, since your previous jump gives you momentum, 
you can use High Jump or Long Jump as a single action, but 
you dont get to Stride as part of the activity. 

You can use Wall Jump only once in a turn, unless you're 
legendary in Athletics, in which case you can use Wall Jump as 
many times as you can use consecutive jump actions in that turn. 


ars. 


WARD MEDIC 

Prerequisites expert in Medicine 
You've studied in large medical wards, treating several patients 
at once and tending to all their needs. When you use Treat 
Disease or Treat Wounds, you can treat up to two targets. If 
you're a master in Medicine, you can treat up to four targets, 
and if you're legendary, you can treat up to eight targets. 


FEAT 2 


WARY DISARMAMENT 
Prerequisites expert in Thievery 
If you trigger a device or set off a trap while disarming it, you 
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your AC or saving throw 
against the device or trap. This applies only to attacks or 
effects triggered by your failed attempt, not to any later ones, 
such as additional attacks from a complex trap. 


FEAT 2 


WEAPON PROFICIENCY 
You become trained in all simple weapons. If you were already 
trained in all simple weapons, you become trained in all martial 
weapons. If you were already trained in all martial weapons, 
you become trained in one advanced weapon of your choice. 

Special You can select this feat more than once. Each 
time you do, you become trained in additional weapons as 
appropriate, following the above progression. 


FEAT 1 


| THE AGE OF 
x LOST OMENS - 


CORE RULEBOOK < 


4 


2| PATHFINDER) 


4 


CHAPTER 6: EQUIPMENT 


To make your mark on the world, you'll need to have the right equipment, including 
armor, weapons, and other gear. This chapter presents the various equipment that you can 


purchase during character creation. You can usually find these items for sale in most cities 


and other large settlements. 


Your character starts out with 15 gold pieces (150 silver 
pieces) to spend on any common items from this chapter. 
Items with an uncommon rarity can be purchased only if 
you have special access from abilities you selected during 
character creation or your GM gives you permission to 
purchase them. 

Once you've purchased your starting items, there are 
three main ways to gain new items and equipment: you 
can find them during an adventure, make them using the 
Crafting skill, or purchase them from a merchant. 


COINS AND CURRENCY 

Though you might be able to barter valuable items in 
some areas, currency is the most versatile way to make 
transactions when you head to market. The most common 
currency is coins. For most commoners and beginning 
adventurers, the standard unit is the silver piece (sp). Each 
silver piece is a standard weight of silver and is typically 
accepted by any merchant or kingdom no matter where 
it was minted. There are three other common types of 
coins, each likewise standardized in weight and value. The 
first is the copper piece (cp). Each copper piece is worth 
one-tenth of a silver piece. The gold piece (gp) is often used 
for purchasing magic items and other expensive items, as 
1 gold piece is worth 10 silver pieces or 100 copper pieces. 
The platinum piece (pp) is used by nobles to demonstrate 
their wealth, for the purchase of very expensive items, or 
simply as a way to easily transport large sums of currency. 
A platinum piece is worth 10 gold pieces, 100 silver pieces, 
or 1,000 copper pieces. See Table 6-1: Coin Values for the 
exchange rates of common types of coins. 


OTHER CURRENCY 


Art objects, gems, and raw materials (such as those used 
for the Craft activity) can be used much like currency: 
you can sell them for the same Price you can buy them. 


PRICE 

Most items in the following tables have a Price, which is 
the amount of currency it typically takes to purchase that 
item. An item with a Price of “—” can’t be purchased. An 
item with a Price of 0 is normally free, but its value could 
be higher based on the materials used to create it. Most 
items can be sold for half their Price, but coins, gems, art 
objects, and raw materials (such as components for the 
Craft activity) can be exchanged for their full Price. 


STARTING MONEY: 15 GP (150 SP) 


TABLE 6-1: COIN VALUES 


Copper piece (cp) 1 1/10 1400 1/1,000 
Silver piece (sp) 10 1 140 1/100 
Gold piece (gp) 100 10 1 1/10 


Platinum piece (pp) 1,000 100 10 1 


ITEM LEVEL 

Each item has an item level, which represents the item’s 
complexity and any magic used in its construction. Simpler 
items with a lower level are easier to construct, and you 
can’t Craft items that have a higher level than your own 
(page 243). If an item’s level isn’t listed, its level is 0. While 
characters can use items of any level, GMs should keep in 
mind that allowing characters access to items far above 
their current level may have a negative impact on the game. 


CARRYING AND USING ITEMS 
A character carries items in three ways: held, worn, and 
stowed. Held items are in your hands; a character typically 
has two hands, allowing them to hold an item in each hand 
or a single two-handed item using both hands. Worn items 
are tucked into pockets, belt pouches, bandoliers, weapon 
sheaths, and so forth, and they can be retrieved and 
returned relatively quickly. Stowed items are in a backpack 
or a similar container, and they are more difficult to access. 

Drawing a worn item or changing how you're carrying 
an item usually requires you to use an Interact action 
(though to drop an item, you use the Release action 
instead). Table 6-2: Changing Equipment on page 273 lists 
some ways that you might change the items you're holding 
or carrying, and the number of hands you need to do so. 

Many ways of using items require you to spend 
multiple actions. For example, drinking a potion worn at 
your belt requires using an Interact action to draw it and 
then using a second action to drink it as described in its 
Activate entry (page 532). 


BULK 


Carrying especially heavy or unwieldy items can make 
it more difficult for you to move, as can overloading 
yourself with too much gear. The Bulk value of an item 
reflects how difficult the item is to handle, representing its 


-PLAYING THE 


= oem MIS em e oma m co aie 
) | F CORE RULEBOOK 4 
: ——€———— n 7 ee " 


size, weight, and general awkwardness. If you have a high 
Strength score, you usually don't need to worry about 
Bulk unless you're carrying numerous substantial items. 


Burk Limits 

You can carry an amount of Bulk equal to 5 plus your 
Strength modifier without penalty; if you carry more, you 
gain the encumbered condition. You can’t hold or carry 
more Bulk than 10 plus your Strength modifier. 


Encumbered 

You are carrying more weight than you can manage. 
While you're encumbered, you're clumsy 1 and take a 
-10-foot penalty to all your Speeds. As with all penalties 
to your Speed, this can't reduce your Speed below 5 feet. 


Burk VALUES 

Items can have a number to indicate their Bulk value, 
or they can be light (indicated by an L) or negligible 
(indicated by a —) for the purpose of determining Bulk. 
For instance, full plate armor is 4 Bulk, a longsword is 
1 Bulk, a dagger or scroll is light, and a piece of chalk is 
negligible. Ten light items count as 1 Bulk, and you round 
down fractions (so 9 light items count as 0 Bulk, and 11 
light items count as 1 Bulk). Items of negligible Bulk don’t 
count toward Bulk unless you try to carry vast numbers 
of them, as determined by the GM. 


EsriMATING AN ITEM’s BULK 

As a general rule, an item that weighs 5 to 10 pounds is 1 
Bulk, an item weighing less than a few ounces is negligible, 
and anything in between is light. Particularly awkward or 
unwieldy items might have higher Bulk values. For example, 
a 10-foot pole isn’t heavy, but its length makes it difficult 
for you to move while you have one on your person, so its 
Bulk is 1. Items made for larger or smaller creatures have 
greater or lesser Bulk, as described on page 295. 


Burk or Coins 

Coins are a popular means of exchange due to their 
portability, but they can still add up. A thousand coins 
of any denomination or combination of denominations 
count as 1 Bulk. It’s not usually necessary to determine 
the Bulk of coins in fractions of 1,000; simply round 
down fractions of 1,000. In other words, 100 coins don’t 
count as a light item, and 1,999 coins are 1 Bulk, not 2. 


Burk or CREATURES 

You might need to know the Bulk of a creature, especially 
if you need to carry someone off the battlefield. The table 
that follows lists the typical Bulk of a creature based on its 
size, but the GM might adjust this number. 


Size of Creature Bulk 


Tiny 1 


Small 3 
Medium 6 
Large 12 
Huge 24 
Gargantuan 48 


DRAGGING 

In some situations, you might drag an object or creature 
rather than carry it. If you’re dragging something, treat its 
Bulk as half. Typically, you can drag one thing at a time, 
you must use both hands to do so, and you drag slowly— 
roughly 50 feet per minute unless you have some means 
to speed it up. Use the total Bulk of what you’re dragging, 
so if you have a sack laden with goods, use the sum of all 
the Bulk it carries instead of an individual item within. 


WIELDING ITEMS 


Some abilities require you to wield an item, typically a 
weapon. You’re wielding an item any time you’re holding 
it in the number of hands needed to use it effectively. 
When wielding an item, you’re not just carrying it 
around—you’re ready to use it. Other abilities might 
require you to be wearing the item, to be holding it, or 
simply to have it. 


ITEM DAMAGE 

An item can be broken or destroyed if it takes enough 
damage. Every item has a Hardness value. Each time an 
item takes damage, reduce any damage the item takes by 
its Hardness. The rest of the damage reduces the item’s 
Hit Points. Normally an item takes damage only when 
a creature is directly attacking it—commonly targeted 
items include doors and traps. A creature that attacks 
you doesn’t normally damage your armor or other gear, 
even if it hits you. However, the Shield Block reaction can 
cause your shield to take damage as you use it to prevent 
damage to yourself, and some monsters have exceptional 
abilities that can damage your items. 

An item that takes damage can become broken 
and eventually destroyed. It becomes broken when 
its Hit Points are equal to or lower than its Broken 
Threshold (BT); once its Hit Points are reduced to 0, 
it is destroyed. A broken item has the broken condition 
until Repaired above its Broken Threshold. Anything 
that automatically makes an item broken immediately 
reduces its Hit Points to its Broken Threshold if the item 
had more Hit Points than that when the effect occurred. 
If an item has no Broken Threshold, then it has no 
relevant changes to its function due to being broken, 
but it’s still destroyed at 0 Hit Points. (See the broken 
condition definition on page 273 for more information.) 
A destroyed item can’t be Repaired. 

An item’s Hardness, Hit Points, and Broken Threshold 
usually depend on the material the item is made of. This 
information appears on page 577. 


TABLE 6-2: CHANGING EQUIPMENT 
Change 
Draw or put away a worn item, or pick up an item! 
Pass an item to or take an item from a willing creature? 
Drop an item to the ground 
Detach a shield or item strapped to you 
Change your grip by removing a hand from an item 
Change your grip by adding a hand to an item 
Retrieve an item from a backpack, sack, or similar container 


EQUIPMENT | 


UN 


INTRODUCTION 


1 If you retrieve a two-handed item with only one hand, you still need to change your grip before you can wield or use it. 


? A creature must have a hand free for someone to pass an item to them, and they might then need to change their grip if they 


receive an item requiring two hands to wield or use. 


3 Retrieving an item stowed in your own backpack requires first taking off the backpack with a separate Interact action. 


Broken 

Broken is a condition that affects objects. An object is 
broken when damage has reduced its Hit Points below 
its Broken Threshold. A broken object can't be used for 
its normal function, nor does it grant bonuses—with the 
exception of armor. Broken armor still grants its item 
bonus to AC, but it also imparts a status penalty to AC 
depending on its category: -1 for broken light armor, -2 for 
broken medium armor, or -3 for broken heavy armor. 

A broken item still imposes penalties and limitations 
normally incurred by carrying, holding, or wearing it. For 
example, broken armor would still impose its Dexterity 
modifier cap, check penalty, and so forth. 

If an effect makes an item broken automatically and the 
item has more HP than its Broken Threshold, that effect 
also reduces the item's current HP to the Broken Threshold. 


OBJECT IMMUNITIES 


Inanimate objects and hazards are immune to bleed, 
death effects, disease, healing, mental effects, necromancy, 
nonlethal attacks, and poison, as well as the doomed, 
drained, fatigued, paralyzed, sickened, and unconscious 
conditions. An item that has a mind is not immune to mental 
effects. Many objects are immune to other conditions, at the 
GM'5 discretion. For instance, a sword has no Speed, so it 
can’t take a penalty to its Speed, but an effect that causes a 
Speed penalty might work on a moving blade trap. 


SHODDY ITEMS 

Improvised or of dubious make, shoddy items are never 
available for purchase except for in the most desperate of 
communities. When available, a shoddy item usually costs 
half the Price of a standard item, though you can never sell 
one in any case. Attacks and checks involving a shoddy 
item take a —2 item penalty. This penalty also applies to any 
DCs that a shoddy item applies to (such as AC, for shoddy 
armor). A shoddy suit of armor also worsens the armor's 
check penalty by 2. A shoddy item's Hit Points and Broken 
Threshold are each half that of a normal item of its type. 


Hands Action 
1or2 Interact 
ee EST ANCESTRIES § 
Tera Hope BACKGROUNDS 
1 Interact 
2 Release CLASSES 
2 Interact 
2 Interact SKILLS 
FEATS 


ae, 


SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


"ue: 
5 


= v YII ES E: maire mnc 
num 1 RO 
) I3) CORE RULEBO 
A a a — » XL E 


ARMOR 


Armor increases your character's defenses, but some medium or heavy armor can hamper 
movement. If you want to increase your character's defense beyond the protection your armor 
provides, they can use a shield. Armor protects your character only while they're wearing it. 


S$ tig gg 9 A 


ARMOR CLASS 

Your Armor Class (AC) measures how well you can 
defend against attacks. When a creature attacks you, your 
Armor Class is the DC for that attack roll. 


Armor Class = 10 + Dexterity modifier (up to your 
armor's Dex Cap) + proficiency bonus + armor's 
item bonus to AC + other bonuses + penalties 


Use your proficiency bonus for the category (light, 
medium, or heavy) or the specific type of armor you’re 
wearing. If you’re not wearing armor, use your proficiency 
in unarmored defense. 


RENNING AND REMOVING 
RMOR 

Getting in and out of armor is time consuming—so 
make sure you’re wearing it when you need it! Donning 
and removing armor are both activities involving many 
Interact actions. It takes 1 minute to don light armor, 5 
minutes to don medium or heavy armor, and 1 minute to 
remove any armor. 


ARMOR STATISTICS 

Table 6-3: Unarmored Defense provides the statistics 
for the various forms of protection without wearing 
armor. Table 6—4: Armor provides the statistics for suits 
of armor that can be purchased and worn, organized 
by category. The columns in both tables provide the 
following statistics. 


CATEGORY 


The armor’s category—unarmored, light armor, medium 
armor, or heavy armor—indicates which proficiency 
bonus you use while wearing the armor. 


AC BONUS 


This number is the item bonus you add for the armor 
when determining Armor Class. 


DEXTERITY MODIFIER CAP (DEX CAP] 


This number is the maximum amount of your 
Dexterity modifier that can apply to your AC while you 
are wearing a given suit of armor. For example, if you 
have a Dexterity modifier of +4 and you are wearing 
a suit of half plate, you apply only a +1 bonus from 
your Dexterity modifier to your AC while wearing 
that armor. 


CHECK PENALTY 


While wearing your armor, you take this penalty to 
Strength- and Dexterity-based skill checks, except for 
those that have the attack trait. If you meet the armor’s 
Strength threshold (see Strength below), you don’t take 
this penalty. 


SPEED PENALTY 


While wearing a suit of armor, you take the penalty 
listed in this entry to your Speed, as well as to any other 
movement types you have, such as a climb Speed or swim 
Speed, to a minimum Speed of 5 feet. If you meet the 
armor’s Strength threshold (see below), you reduce the 
penalty by 5 feet. 


STRENGTH 


This entry indicates the Strength score at which you are 
strong enough to overcome some of the armor’s penalties. 
If your Strength is equal to or greater than this value, 
you no longer take the armor’s check penalty, and you 
decrease the Speed penalty by 5 feet (to no penalty if the 
penalty was —5 feet, or to a —5-foot penalty if the penalty 
was —10 feet). 


BULK 


This entry gives the armor’s Bulk, assuming you’re 
wearing the armor and distributing its weight across your 
body. A suit of armor that’s carried usually has 1 more 
Bulk than what’s listed here (or 1 Bulk total for armor 
of light Bulk). An armor’s Bulk is increased or decreased 
if it’s sized for creatures that aren’t Small or Medium in 
size, following the rules on page 295. 


GROUP 


Each type of clothing and armor belongs to an armor 
group, which classifies it with similar types of armor. 
Some abilities reference armor groups, typically to grant 
armor specialization effects, which are described on 
page 275. 


ARMOR TRAITS 


The traits for each suit of armor appear in this entry. 
Armor can have the following traits. 

Bulwark: The armor covers you so completely that 
it provides benefits against some damaging effects. 
On Reflex saves to avoid a damaging effect, such 
as a fireball, you add a +3 modifier instead of your 
Dexterity modifier. 


TABLE 6-3: UNARMORED DEFENSE 


Unarmored Price AC Bonus Dex Cap Check Penalty Speed Penalty Bulk Group Armor Traits 


No armor — +0 
Explorer's clothing 1 sp +0 +5 — 


TABLE 6-4: ARMOR 


Light Armor Price AC Bonus Dex Cap Check Penalty Speed Penalty Strength Bulk — Group Armor Traits 


E o E 


EQUIPMENT 


Sa eee 


— L Cloth Comfort 


Padded armor 2 sp +1 +3 = = 10 L Cloth Comfort 
Leather 2 gp +1 +4 -1 - 10 1 Leather = 
Studded leather 3 gp +2 +3 =] = 12 1 Leather — 

Chain shirt 5 gp +2 +3 -1 — 12 1 Chain Flexible, noisy 
Medium Armor Price AC Bonus DexCap Check Penalty Speed Penalty Strength Bulk Group Armor Traits 
Hide 2 gp +3 +2 -2 -5 ft. 14 2 Leather = 

Scale mail 4 gp +3 +2 -2 -5 ft. 14 2 Composite = 
Chain mail 6 gp +4 +1 -2 -5 ft. 16 2 Chain Flexible, noisy 
Breastplate 8 gp +4 +1 -2 -5 ft. 16 2 Plate — 
Heavy Armor Price AC Bonus DexCap Check Penalty Speed Penalty Strength Bulk Group Armor Traits 
Splint mail (level 1) 13 gp +5 +] -3 -10 ft. 16 3 Composite - 

Half plate (level 1) 18 gp +5 +1 -3 -10 ft. 16 3 Plate - 

Full plate (level 2) 30 gp +6 +0 -3 -10 ft. 18 4 Plate Bulwark 

Comfort: The armor is so comfortable that you can MATERIALS 


rest normally while wearing it. 

Flexible: The armor is flexible enough that it doesn’t 
hinder most actions. You don’t apply its check penalty to 
Acrobatics or Athletics checks. 

Noisy: This armor is loud and likely to alert others to 
your presence. The armor’s check penalty applies to Stealth 
checks even if you meet the required Strength score. 


ARMOR SPECIALIZATION EFFECTS 


Certain class features can grant you additional benefits 
with certain armors. This is called an armor specialization 
effect. The exact effect depends on which armor group 
your armor belongs to, as listed below. Only medium and 
heavy armors have armor specialization effects. 

Chain: The armor is so flexible it can bend with a 
critical hit and absorb some of the blow. Reduce the 
damage from critical hits by either 4 + the value of the 
armor’s potency rune for medium armor, or 6 + the value 
of the armor’s potency rune for heavy armor. This can’t 
reduce the damage to less than the damage rolled for the 
hit before doubling for a critical hit. 

Composite: The numerous overlapping pieces of 
this armor protect you from piercing attacks. You gain 
resistance to piercing damage equal to 1 + the value of the 
armor’s potency rune for medium armor, or 2 + the value 
of the armor’s potency rune for heavy armor. 

Leather: The thick second skin of the armor disperses 
blunt force to reduce bludgeoning damage. You gain 
resistance to bludgeoning damage equal to 1 + the value 
of the armor’s potency rune for medium armor, or 2 + the 
value of the armor’s potency rune for heavy armor. 

Plate: The sturdy plate provides no purchase for a 
cutting edge. You gain resistance to slashing damage 


Most suits of armor and weapons are made from ordinary, 
commonly available materials like iron, leather, steel, and 
wood. If you're not sure what a suit of armor is made of, 
the GM determines the details. 

Some armor, shields, and weapons are instead 
made of precious materials. These often have inherent 
supernatural properties. Cold iron, for example, which 
harms fey, and silver can damage werecreatures. These 
materials are detailed beginning on page 577. 


equal to 1 + the value of the armor's potency rune for 
medium armor, or 2 « the value of the armor's potency 
rune for heavy armor. 


ARMOR DESCRIPTIONS 
Each type of armor is described in more detail below. 

Breastplate: Though referred to as a breastplate, 
this type of armor consists of several pieces of plate 
or half-plate armor (page 276) that protect the torso, 
chest, neck, and sometimes the hips and lower legs. It 
strategically grants some of the protection of plate while 
allowing greater flexibility and speed. 

Chain Mail: A suit of chain mail consists of several 
pieces of armor composed of small metal rings linked 
together in a protective mesh. It typically includes a chain 
shirt, leggings, a pair of arms, and a coif, collectively 
protecting most of the body. 

Chain Shirt: Sometimes called a hauberk, this is a long 
shirt constructed of the same metal rings as chainmail. 
However, it is much lighter than chainmail and protects 
only the torso, upper arms, and upper legs of its wearer. 


NEN", ^5," 


| EQUIPMENT 


e t 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


| AFTING 
B TREASURE 


PATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


Explorer’s Clothing: Adventurers who don’t wear 
armor travel in durable clothing. Though it’s not armor 
and uses your unarmored defense proficiency, it still has 
a Dex Cap and can grant an item bonus to AC if etched 
with potency runes (as described on page 581). 

Full Plate: Plate mail consists of interlocking plates 
that encase nearly the entire body in a carapace of steel. 
It is costly and heavy, and the wearer often requires 
help to don it correctly, but it provides some of the best 
defense armor can supply. A suit of this armor comes 


with an undercoat of padded armor (see below) and a 
pair of gauntlets (page 285). 

Half Plate: Half plate consists of most of the upper body 
plates used in full plate, with lighter or sparser steel plate 
protection for the arms and legs. This provides some of the 
protection of full plate with greater flexibility and speed. 
A suit of this armor comes with an undercoat of padded 
armor (see below) and a pair of gauntlets (page 285). 

Hide: A mix of furs, sturdy hide, and sometimes molded 
boiled leather, this armor provides protection due to its 
layers of leather, though its bulkiness slows the wearer 
down and decreases mobility. 

Leather: A mix of flexible and molded boiled leather, a 
suit of this type of armor provides some protection with 
maximum flexibility. 

Padded Armor: This armor is simply a layer of heavy, 
quilted cloth, but it is sometimes used because it’s so 

inexpensive. Padded armor is easier to damage 

and destroy than other types of armor. Heavy 

armor comes with a padded armor undercoat 
included in its Price, though it loses the comfort 
trait when worn under heavy armor. You can wear 
just that padded armor undercoat to sleep in, if your 
heavy armor is destroyed, or when otherwise not 
wearing the full heavy armor. This allows you to 
keep the armor invested and benefit from the 

d power of any runes on the associated heavy 
armor, but no one else can wear your heavy 


aw 
armor without the padded undercoat. 
Scale Mail: Scale mail consists of many metal scales 
sewn onto a reinforced leather backing, often in the form 
of a long shirt that protects the torso, arms, and legs. 
Splint Mail: This type of armor is chain mail reinforced 
with flexible, interlocking metal plates, typically located 
on the wearer’s torso, upper arms, and legs. A suit of 
this armor comes with an undercoat of padded armor 
(see above) and a pair of gauntlets (page 285). 

Studded Leather: This leather armor is reinforced 
with metal studs and sometimes small metal plates, 
providing most of the flexibility of leather armor with 
more robust protection. 


DAMAGING ARMOR 
Your armor's statistics are based on the material 
it’s predominantly made from. It's not likely your 
armor will take damage, as explained in Item 
Damage on page 272. 


Material Hardness HP BT 


Cloth (explorer's clothing, 1 4 2 
padded armor) 

Leather (hide, leather, studded 4 16 8 
leather) 

Metal (breastplate, chain mail, 9 36 18 


chain shirt, full plate, half plate, 
scale mail, splint mail) 


SHIELDS 


A shield can increase your character’s defense beyond the protection their armor provides. 
Your character must be wielding a shield in one hand to make use of it, and it grants its 
bonus to AC only if they use an action to Raise a Shield. This action grants the shield’s bonus 
to AC as a circumstance bonus until their next turn starts. A shield’s Speed penalty applies 
whenever your character is holding the shield, whether they have raised it or not. 


— — S OO — 


Raise a Shield is the action most commonly used with shields. 
Most shields must be held in one hand, so you can't hold 
anything with that hand and Raise a Shield, and you lose its 
benefits if that hand is no longer free. A buckler, however, 
doesn't take up your hand, so you can Raise a Shield with a 
buckler if the hand is free (or, at the GM's discretion, if it's 
holding a simple, lightweight object that's not a weapon). 

When you have a tower shield raised, you can use the 
Take Cover action (page 471) to increase the circumstance 
bonus to AC to 44. This lasts until the shield is no longer 
raised, or until any of the normal conditions that end Take 
Cover, whichever comes first. If you would provide lesser 
cover against an attack, having your tower shield raised 
provides standard cover against it (and other creatures can 
Take Cover as normal using the cover from your shield). 

If you have access to the Shield Block reaction (from 
your class or from a feat), you can use it while Raising 
your Shield to reduce the damage you take by an amount 
equal to the shield's Hardness. Both you and the shield 
then take any remaining damage. 


SHIELD STATISTICS 

Shields have statistics that follow the same rules as armor: 
Price, Speed Penalty, and Bulk. See page 274 for the rules 
for those statistics. Their other statistics are described here. 


AC BONUS 


A shield grants a circumstance bonus to AC, but only 
when the shield is raised. This requires using the Raise a 
Shield action, found on page 472. 


HARDNESS 


Whenever a shield takes damage, the amount of damage it 
takes is reduced by this amount. This number is particularly 
relevant for shields because of the Shield Block feat 
(page 266). The rules for Hardness appear on page 272. 


TABLE 6-5: SHIELDS 


HP [BT] 

This column lists the shield's Hit Points (HP) and Broken 
Threshold (BT). These measure how much damage the 
shield can take before it's destroyed (its total HP) and how 
much it can take before being broken and unusable (its BT). 
These matter primarily for the Shield Block reaction. 


ATTACKING WITH A SHIELD 
A shield can be used as a martial weapon for attacks, 
using the statistics listed for a shield bash on Table 6-7: 
Melee Weapons (page 280). The shield bash is an option 
only for shields that weren't designed to be used as 
weapons. A shield can't have runes added to it. You can 
also buy and attach a shield boss or shield spikes to a 
shield to make it a more practical weapon. These can be 
found on Table 6-7. These work like other weapons and 
can even be etched with runes. 


SHIELD DESCRIPTIONS 
Each type of shield is described in more detail below. 
Buckler: This very small shield is a favorite of duelists 
and quick, lightly armored warriors. It's typically made of 
steel and strapped to your forearm. You can Raise a Shield 
with your buckler as long as you have that hand free or 
are holding a light object that's not a weapon in that hand. 
Wooden Shield: Though they come in a variety of shapes 
and sizes, the protection offered by wooden shields comes 
from the stoutness of their materials. While wooden shields 
are less expensive than steel shields, they break more easily. 
Steel Shield: Like wooden shields, steel shields come 
in a variety of shapes and sizes. Though more expensive 
than wooden shields, they are much more durable. 
Tower Shield: These massive shields can be used to 
provide cover to nearly the entire body. Due to their size, 
they are typically made of wood reinforced with metal. 


Shield Price AC Bonus! Speed Penalty Bulk Hardness HP (BT) 
Buckler 1gp +1 - L 3 6 (3) 
Wooden shield 1 gp +2 - 1 8 12 (6) 
Steel shield 2 gp +2 - 1 5 20 (10) 
Tower shield 10 gp +2/+42 -5 ft. 4 5 20 (10) 


! Gaining a shield's circumstance bonus to AC requires using the Raise a Shield action (found on page 472). 
? Getting the higher bonus for a tower shield requires using the Take Cover action (page 471) while the shield is raised. 


n 


x 


mV 


| EQUIPMENT 
Te Ky 


SPELLS 
LY 


. THE AGE OF 
it LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 
GAME 


AD 
A 


e 


APPEND 
— 


| B TREASURE 


ne 


JATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3j 
St ama a la e poo a = =f 


WEAPONS 


Most characters in Pathfinder carry weapons, ranging from mighty warhammers to graceful 
bows to even simple clubs. Full details on how you calculate the bonuses, modifiers, and 
penalties for attack rolls and damage rolls are given in Chapter 9 on page 446, but they’re 
summarized here, followed by the rules for weapons and dozens of weapon choices. 


a WU x 


ATTACK ROLLS 

When making an attack roll, determine the result by 
rolling 1d20 and adding your attack modifier for the 
weapon or unarmed attack you're using. Modifiers for 
melee and ranged attacks are calculated differently. 


Melee attack modifier = Strength modifier (or 
optionally Dexterity for a finesse weapon) * 
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties 


Ranged attack modifier = Dexterity modifier + 
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties 


Bonuses, and penalties apply to these rolls just like 
with other types of checks. Weapons with potency runes 
(page 581) add an item bonus to your attack rolls. 


MULTIPLE ATTACK PENALTY 


If you use an action with the attack trait more than once 
on the same turn, your attacks after the first take a penalty 
called a multiple attack penalty. Your second attack takes a 
—5 penalty, and any subsequent attacks take a -10 penalty. 
The multiple attack penalty doesn't apply to attacks 
you make when it isn't your turn (such as attacks made as 
part of a reaction). You can use a weapon with the agile 
trait (page 282) to reduce your multiple attack penalty. 


DAMAGE ROLLS 

When the result of your attack roll with a weapon or 
unarmed attack equals or exceeds your target's AC, you 
hit your target! Roll the weapon or unarmed attack's 
damage die and add the relevant modifiers, bonuses, and 
penalties to determine the amount of damage you deal. 
Calculate a damage roll as follows. 


Melee damage roll - damage die of weapon or unarmed 
attack * Strength modifier * bonuses * penalties 


Ranged damage roll = damage die of weapon + Strength 
modifier for thrown weapons * bonuses * penalties 


Ranged weapons don't normally add an ability modifier 
to the damage roll, though weapons with the propulsive 
trait (page 283) add half your Strength modifier (or your 
full modifier if it is a negative number), and thrown 
weapons add your full Strength modifier. 


Magic weapons with striking, greater striking, or 
major striking runes (page 581) add one or more weapon 
damage dice to your damage roll. These extra dice are 
the same die size as the weapon's damage die. At higher 
levels, most characters also gain extra damage from 
weapon specialization. 


CRITICAL HITS 

When you make an attack and succeed with a natural 
20 (the number on the die is 20), or if the result of your 
attack exceeds the target's AC by 10, you achieve a critical 
success (also known as a critical hit). 

If you critically succeed at a Strike, your attack deals 
double damage (page 451). Other attacks, such as spell 
attack rolls and some uses of the Athletics skill, describe 
the specific effects that occur when their outcomes are 
critical successes. 


UNARMED ATTACKS 

Almost all characters start out trained in unarmed 
attacks. You can Strike with your fist or another body 
part, calculating your attack and damage rolls in the 
same way you would with a weapon. Unarmed attacks 
can belong to a weapon group (page 280), and they 
might have weapon traits (page 282). However, unarmed 
attacks aren't weapons, and effects and abilities that 
work with weapons never work with unarmed attacks 
unless they specifically say so. 

Table 6-6: Unarmed Attacks lists the statistics for an 
unarmed attack with a fist, though you’ll usually use the 
same statistics for attacks made with any other parts 
of your body. Certain ancestry feats, class features, and 
spells give access to special, more powerful unarmed 
attacks. Details for those unarmed attacks are provided 
in the abilities that grant them. 


IMPROVISED WEAPONS 

If you attack with something that wasn’t built to be a 
weapon, such as a chair or a vase, you’re making an 
attack with an improvised weapon. Improvised weapons 
are simple weapons. You take a —2 item penalty to attack 
rolls with an improvised weapon. The GM determines the 
amount and type of damage the attack deals, if any, as well 
as any weapon traits the improvised weapon should have. 


WEAPON STATISTICS 


The tables on pages 280—282 list the statistics for various 
melee and ranged weapons that you can purchase, as well 
as the statistics for striking with a fist (or another basic 
unarmed attack). The tables present the following statistics. 
All weapons listed in this chapter have an item level of 0. 


DAMAGE 


This entry lists the weapon’s damage die and the type of 
damage it deals: B for bludgeoning, P for piercing, or S 
for slashing. 


Damage Dice 

Each weapon lists the damage die used for its damage 
roll. A standard weapon deals one die of damage, but a 
magical striking rune can increase the number of dice 
rolled, as can some special actions and spells. These 
additional dice use the same die size as the weapon or 
unarmed attack's normal damage die. 


Counting Damage Dice 
Effects based on a weapon's number of damage dice 
include only the weapon's damage die plus any extra dice 
from a striking rune. They don't count extra dice from 
abilities, critical specialization effects, property runes, 
weapon traits, or the like. 


Increasing Die Size 

When an effect calls on you to increase the size of your 
weapon damage dice, instead of using its normal weapon 
damage dice, use the next larger die, as listed below (so if 
you were using a d4, you'd use a d6, and so on). If you are 
already using a d12, the size is already at its maximum. 
You can't increase your weapon damage die size more 
than once. 

1d4 > 1d6 — 1d8 — 1d10  1d12 


RANGE 


Ranged and thrown weapons have a range increment. 
Attacks with these weapons work normally up to 
that distance. Attack rolls beyond a weapon's range 
increment take a —2 penalty for each additional multiple 
of that increment between you and the target. Attacks 
beyond the sixth range increment are impossible. 

For example, a shortbow takes no penalty against a 
target up to 60 feet away, a —2 penalty against a target 
beyond 60 feet but up to 120 feet away, and a —4 penalty 
against a target beyond 120 feet but up to 180 feet away, 
and so on, up to 360 feet. 


RELDAD 


While all weapons need some amount of time to get into 
position, many ranged weapons also need to be loaded and 
reloaded. This entry indicates how many Interact actions 
it takes to reload such weapons. This can be 0 if drawing 


EN ad 


EQUIPMENT 


o d 


SELECTING WEAPONS 

Characters who focus on combat need to carefully 
consider their choice of weapons, evaluating whether 
they want to fight in melee or at range, the weapons' 
damage potential, and the special features of various 
weapons. Characters who are primarily spellcasters 
usually just need to pick a backup weapon in the best 
category they're trained or better in. 

When selecting weapons, start by identifying the 
weapon types you're trained or better in. You should then 
compare weapons within these types to determine which 
ones you will have the highest melee or ranged attack 
modifier with. It's usually considered best practice to 
select both a melee and ranged weapon during character 
creation so you can contend with a broader variety of 
foes and situations. 


Weapon Categories 

Weapons fall into broad categories depending on how 
much damage they deal and what traits they have. 
Martial weapons generally deal more damage than simple 
weapons, and advanced weapons generally have more 
advantageous traits than martial weapons with the same 
damage. Generally, you'll want to select weapons that deal 
more damage, but if you're a highly skilled combatant, you 
might want to pick a weapon with interesting traits, even 
if it has a lower weapon damage die. You can also purchase 
multiple weapons within your budget, allowing you to 
switch between them for different situations. 


ammunition and firing the weapon are part of the same 
action. If an item takes 2 or more actions to reload, the 
GM determines whether they must be performed together 
as an activity, or you can spend some of those actions 
during one turn and the rest during your next turn. 

An item with an entry of *—" must be drawn to be 
thrown, which usually takes an Interact action just like 
drawing any other weapon. Reloading a ranged weapon 
and drawing a thrown weapon both require a free hand. 
Switching your grip to free a hand and then to place your 
hands in the grip necessary to wield the weapon are both 
included in the actions you spend to reload a weapon. 


BULK 


This entry gives the weapon's Bulk. A weapon's Bulk is 
increased or decreased if it's sized for creatures that aren't 
Small or Medium size, following the rules on page 295. 


HANDS 


Some weapons require one hand to wield, and others 
require two. A few items, such as a longbow, list 1+ for 
its Hands entry. You can hold a weapon with a 1+ entry 
in one hand, but the process of shooting it requires using 
a second to retrieve, nock, and loose an arrow. This means 
you can do things with your free hand while holding the 


o iif XA 


EQUIPMENT 


[ PLAYING THE 
GAME 


B TREASURE 


bow without changing your grip, but the other hand must 
be free when you shoot. To properly wield a 1+ weapon, 
you must hold it in one hand and also have a hand free. 

Weapons requiring two hands typically deal more damage. 
Some one-handed weapons have the two-hand trait, causing 
them to deal a different size of weapon damage die when 
used in two hands. In addition, some abilities require you 
to wield a weapon in two hands. You meet this requirement 
while holding the weapon in two hands, even if it doesn’t 
require two hands or have the two-hand trait. 


GROUP 


A weapon or unarmed attack’s group classifies it with 
similar weapons. Groups affect some abilities and what 
the weapon does on a critical hit if you have access to 


TABLE 6-6: UNARMED ATTACKS 


Unarmed 


that weapon or unarmed attack’s critical specialization 
effects; for full details, see page 283. 


WEAPON TRAITS 


The traits a weapon or unarmed attack has are listed in 
this entry. Any trait that refers to a “weapon” can also 
apply to an unarmed attack that has that trait. 


AMMUNITION 


Some entries in the ranged weapons tables are followed by 
an entry for the type of ammunition that weapon launches. 
The damage die is determined by the weapon, not the 
ammunition. Because that and other relevant statistics 
vary by weapon, ammunition entries list only the name, 
quantity, Price, and Bulk. Using ammunition destroys it. 


Attack Price Damage Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 

Fist — 1d4 B - 1 Brawling Agile, finesse, nonlethal, unarmed 
TABLE 6-7: MELEE WEAPONS 

Simple 

Weapons Price Damage Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 

Club 0 1d6 B 1 1 Club Thrown 10 ft. 

Dagger 2 sp 1d4 P L 1 Knife Agile, finesse, thrown 10 ft., versatile S 
Gauntlet 2 sp {d4 B L 1 Brawling ^ Agile, free-hand 

Light mace 4 sp {d4 B L 1 Club Agile, finesse, shove 
Longspear 5 sp 1d8 P 2 2 Spear Reach 

Mace 1gp 1d6 B 1 1 Club Shove 

Morningstar 1gp 1d6 B 1 1 Club Versatile P 

Sickle 2 sp 1d4 S L 1 Knife Agile, finesse, trip 

Spear {sp {d6 P 1 1 Spear Thrown 20 ft. 

Spiked gauntlet 3 sp 1d4 P L 1 Brawling ^ Agile, free-hand 

Staff 0 1d4 B 1 1 Club Two-hand d8 

Uncommon 

Simple Weapons Price Damage Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 

Clan dagger 2 gp 1d4 P L 1 Knife Agile, dwarf, parry, versatile B 
Katar 3 sp 1d4 P L 1 Knife Agile, deadly d6, monk 
Martial Weapons Price Damage Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 

Bastard sword 4 gp 1d8 S 1 1 Sword Two-hand di2 

Battle axe 1 gp 1d8 S 1 1 Axe Sweep 

Bo staff 2 sp 1d8 B 2 2 Club Monk, parry, reach, trip 
Falchion 3 gp 1d10 S 2 2 Sword Forceful, sweep 

Flail 8 sp 1d6 B 1 1 Flail Disarm, sweep, trip 

Glaive 1gp {d8 S 2 2 Polearm Deadly d8, forceful, reach 
Greataxe 2 gp 1d12 S 2 2 Axe Sweep 

Greatclub 1gp 1d10 B 2 2 Club Backswing, shove 

Greatpick 1gp 1d10 P 2 2 Pick Fatal d12 

Greatsword 2 gp 1d12 S 2 2 Sword Versatile P 

Guisarme 2 gp 1d10 S 2 2 Polearm Reach, trip 

Halberd 2 gp 1d10 P 2 2 Polearm Reach, versatile S 

Hatchet 4sp {d6 S L 1 Axe Agile, sweep, thrown 10 ft. 
Lance 1gp {d8 P 2 2 Spear Deadly d8, jousting d6, reach 
Light hammer 3 sp {d6 B L 1 Hammer Agile, thrown 20 ft. 

Light pick Asp 1d4 P L 1 Pick Agile, fatal d8 


| piace. a E 
£ EQUIPMENT 


Sos 


Martial Weapons Price Damage Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 
Longsword 1 gp 1d8 S 1 1 Sword Versatile P 
Main-gauche 5 sp 1d4 P L 1 Knife Agile, disarm, finesse, parry, versatile S 
Maul 3 gp 1d12 B 2 2 Hammer Shove 
Pick 7sp 1d6 P 1 1 Pick Fatal d10 
Ranseur 2 gp 1d10 P 2 2 Polearm Disarm, reach 
Rapier 2 gp 1d6 P 1 1 Sword Deadly d8, disarm, finesse 
Sap 1sp 1d6 B L 1 Club Agile, nonlethal 
Scimitar 1 gp {d6 S 1 1 Sword Forceful, sweep 
Scythe 2 gp 1d10 S 2 2 Polearm Deadly d10, trip 
Shield bash - 1d4 B - 1 Shield - 
Shield boss 5 sp 1d6 B = 1 Shield Attached to shield 
Shield spikes 5 sp 1d6 P — 1 Shield Attached to shield 
Shortsword 9 sp 1d6 P L 1 Sword Agile, finesse, versatile S 
Starknife 2 gp 1d4 P L 1 Knife Agile, deadly d6, finesse, thrown 20 ft., j SPELLS 
versatile S z 
Trident 1gp {d8 P 1 1 Spear Thrown 20 ft. - 
War flail 2 gp 1d10 B 2 2 Flail Disarm, sweep, trip . THE AGE OF 
Warhammer 1gp 1d8 B 1 1 Hammer Shove LOST OMENS 
Whip 1sp 1d4S 1 1 Flail Disarm, finesse, nonlethal, reach, trip 
Uncommon 
Martial Weapons Price Damage Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 
Dogslicer {sp {d6 S L 1 Sword Agile, backstabber, finesse, goblin 
Elven curve blade 4 gp 1d8 S 2 2 Sword Elf, finesse, forceful 
Filcher's fork 1 gp 1d4 P L 1 Spear Agile, backstabber, deadly d6, finesse, : 7 ce 
halfling, thrown 20 ft. Ris 
Gnome hooked 2 gp 1d6 B 1 1 Hammer Gnome, trip, two-hand d10, versatile P 
hammer 
Horsechopper 9 sp 1d8 S 2 2 Polearm Goblin, reach, trip, versatile P 
Kama 1gp {d6 S L 1 Knife Agile, monk, trip 
Katana 2 gp {d6 S 1 1 Sword Deadly d8, two-hand d10, versatile P 
Kukri 6 sp {d6 S L 1 Knife Agile, finesse, trip 
Nunchaku 2 sp 1d6 B L 1 Club Backswing, disarm, finesse, monk 
Orc knuckle dagger — 7 sp 1d6 P L 1 Knife Agile, disarm, orc 
Sai 6 sp 1d4 P L 1 Knife Agile, disarm, finesse, monk, versatile B 
Spiked chain 3 gp 1d8 S 1 2 Flail Disarm, finesse, trip 
Temple sword 2 gp 1d8 S 1 1 Sword Monk, trip 
Uncommon 
Advanced Weapons Price Damage Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 
Dwarven waraxe 3 gp 1d8 S 2 1 Axe Dwarf, sweep, two-hand d12 
Gnome flickmace 3 gp 1d6 B 1 1 Flail Gnome, reach, sweep 
Orc necksplitter 2 gp 1d8 S 1 1 Axe Forceful, orc, sweep 
Sawtooth saber 5 gp 1d6 S L 1 Sword Agile, finesse, twin 
TABLE 6-8: RANGED WEAPONS 
Simple Weapons Price Damage Range Reload Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 
Blowgun {sp 1P 20 ft. 1 L 1 Dart Agile, nonlethal 
10 blowgun darts 5 cp L 
Crossbow 3 gp 1d8 P 120 ft. 1 1 2 Bow = 
10 bolts 1sp L 
Dart {cp 1d4 P 20 ft. = L 1 Dart Agile, thrown 
Hand crossbow 3 gp 1d6 P 60 ft. 1 L 1 Bow = 
10 bolts 1sp L 
Heavy crossbow 4 gp 1d10 P 120 ft. 2 2 2 Bow = 
10 bolts 1sp L 


Javelin 1sp 1d6 P 30 ft. — L 1 Dart Thrown 


Simple Weapons Price Damage Range Reload Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 
Sling 0 1d6 B 50 ft. L 1 Sling Propulsive 
10 sling bullets icp L 
Martial Weapons Price Damage Range Reload Bulk Hands Group Weapon Traits 
Alchemical bomb* Varies Varies 20 ft. L 1 Bomb Varies 
Composite longbow 20 gp 1d8 P 100 ft. 2 1+ Bow Deadly d10, propulsive, 
volley 30 ft. 
10 arrows 1sp L 
Composite shortbow 14 gp 1d6 P 60 ft. 1 1+ Bow Deadly d10, propulsive 
10 arrows 1sp L 
Longbow 6 gp 1d8 P 100 ft. 2 1+ Bow Deadly d10, volley 30 ft. 
10 arrows 1sp IL 
Shortbow 3 gp 1d6 P 60 ft. 1 1+ Bow Deadly d10 
10 arrows {sp L 


Uncommon 
Price 


Martial Weapons 


Damage Range 


Reload Bulk 


Hands Group Weapon Traits 


Halfling sling staff 5 gp 1d10 B 80 ft. 
10 sling bullets 1cp 
Shuriken 1cp 1d4 P 20 ft. 


1 2 Sling Halfling, propulsive 


- 1 Dart Agile, monk, thrown 


* Statistics for alchemical bombs can be found starting on page 544. 


WEAPON TRAITS 


Weapons and unarmed attacks with the weapon trait can 
have the following traits. 

Agile: The multiple attack penalty you take with this 
weapon on the second attack on your turn is —4 instead 
of —5, and -8 instead of -10 on the third and subsequent 
attacks in the turn. 

Attached: An attached weapon must be combined with 
another piece of gear to be used. The trait lists what type of 
item the weapon must be attached to. You must be wielding 
or wearing the item the weapon is attached to in order to 
attack with it. For example, shield spikes are attached to 
a shield, allowing you to attack with the spikes instead of 
a shield bash, but only if you're wielding the shield. An 
attached weapon is usually bolted onto or built into the 
item it's attached to, and typically an item can have only one 
weapon attached to it. An attached weapon can be affixed 
to an item with 10 minutes of work and a successful DC 10 
Crafting check; this includes the time needed to remove 
the weapon from a previous item, if necessary. If an item 
is destroyed, its attached weapon can usually be salvaged. 

Backstabber: When you hit a flat-footed creature, 
this weapon deals 1 precision damage in addition to its 
normal damage. The precision damage increases to 2 if 
the weapon is a +3 weapon. 

Backswing: You can use the momentum from a missed 
attack with this weapon to lead into your next attack. 
After missing with this weapon on your turn, you gain 
a «1 circumstance bonus to your next attack with this 
weapon before the end of your turn. 

Deadly: On a critical hit, the weapon adds a weapon 
damage die of the listed size. Roll this after doubling the 
weapon's damage. This increases to two dice if the weapon 
has a greater striking rune and three dice if the weapon has 


a major striking rune. For instance, a rapier with a greater 
striking rune deals 2d8 extra piercing damage on a critical 
hit. An ability that changes the size of the weapon's normal 
damage dice doesn't change the size of its deadly die. 

Disarm: You can use this weapon to Disarm with the 
Athletics skill even if you don't have a free hand. This uses 
the weapon's reach (if different from your own) and adds 
the weapon's item bonus to attack rolls (if any) as an item 
bonus to the Athletics check. If you critically fail a check to 
Disarm using the weapon, you can drop the weapon to take 
the effects of a failure instead of a critical failure. On a critical 
success, you still need a free hand if you want to take the item. 

Dwarf: Dwarves craft and use these weapons. 

Elf: Elves craft and use these weapons. 

Fatal: The fatal trait includes a die size. On a critical 
hit, the weapon's damage die increases to that die size 
instead of the normal die size, and the weapon adds one 
additional damage die of the listed size. 

Finesse: You can use your Dexterity modifier instead 
of your Strength modifier on attack rolls using this 
melee weapon. You still use your Strength modifier when 
calculating damage. 

Forceful: This weapon becomes more dangerous as you 
build momentum. When you attack with it more than once 
on your turn, the second attack gains a circumstance bonus 
to damage equal to the number of weapon damage dice, 
and each subsequent attack gains a circumstance bonus to 
damage equal to double the number of weapon damage dice. 

Free-Hand: This weapon doesn't take up your hand, 
usually because it is built into your armor. A free-hand 
weapon can't be Disarmed. You can use the hand covered 
by your free-hand weapon to wield other items, perform 
manipulate actions, and so on. You can't attack with a 
free-hand weapon if you're wielding anything in that hand 


or otherwise using that hand. When you’re not wielding 
anything and not otherwise using the hand, you can use 
abilities that require you to have a hand free as well as those 
that require you to be wielding a weapon in that hand. Each 
of your hands can have only one free-hand weapon on it. 

Gnome: Gnomes craft and use these weapons. 

Goblin: Goblins craft and use these weapons. 

Grapple: You can use this weapon to Grapple with the 
Athletics skill even if you don’t have a free hand. This 
uses the weapon’s reach (if different from your own) and 
adds the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls as an item 
bonus to the Athletics check. If you critically fail a check 
to Grapple using the weapon, you can drop the weapon 
to take the effects of a failure instead of a critical failure. 

Halfling: Halflings craft and use these weapons. 

Jousting: The weapon is suited for mounted combat 
with a harness or similar means. When mounted, if you 
moved at least 10 feet on the action before your attack, 
add a circumstance bonus to damage for that attack 
equal to the number of damage dice for the weapon. In 
addition, while mounted, you can wield the weapon in 
one hand, changing the damage die to the listed value. 

Monk: Many monks learn to use these weapons. 

Nonlethal: Attacks with this weapon are nonlethal 
(page 453), and are used to knock creatures unconscious 
instead of kill them. You can use a nonlethal weapon to 
make a lethal attack with a —2 circumstance penalty. 

Orc: Orcs craft and use these weapons. 

Parry: This weapon can be used defensively to block 
attacks. While wielding this weapon, if your proficiency 
with it is trained or better, you can spend a single action 
to position your weapon defensively, gaining a +1 
circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next turn. 

Propulsive: You add half your Strength modifier 
(if positive) to damage rolls with a propulsive ranged 
weapon. If you have a negative Strength modifier, you 
add your full Strength modifier instead. 

Reach: This weapon is long and can be used to attack 
creatures up to 10 feet away instead of only adjacent 
creatures. For creatures that already have reach with 
the limb or limbs that wield the weapon, the weapon 
increases their reach by 5 feet. 

Shove: You can use this weapon to Shove with the 
Athletics skill even if you don't have a free hand. This 
uses the weapon's reach (if different from your own) and 
adds the weapon's item bonus to attack rolls as an item 
bonus to the Athletics check. If you critically fail a check 
to Shove using the weapon, you can drop the weapon to 
take the effects of a failure instead of a critical failure. 

Sweep: This weapon makes wide sweeping or spinning 
attacks, making it easier to attack multiple enemies. When 
you attack with this weapon, you gain a +1 circumstance 
bonus to your attack roll if you already attempted to 
attack a different target this turn using this weapon. 

Thrown: You can throw this weapon as a ranged attack; 
it is a ranged weapon when thrown. You add your Strength 


modifier to damage as you would for a melee weapon. 
When this trait appears on a melee weapon, it also includes 
the range increment. Ranged weapons with this trait use the 
range increment in the weapon's Range entry. 

Trip: You can use this weapon to Trip with the Athletics 
skill even if you don't have a free hand. This uses the 
weapon’s reach (if different from your own) and adds the 
weapon's item bonus to attack rolls as an item bonus to 
the Athletics check. If you critically fail a check to Trip 
using the weapon, you can drop the weapon to take the 
effects of a failure instead of a critical failure. 

Twin: These weapons are used as a pair, complementing 
each other. When you attack with a twin weapon, you 
add a circumstance bonus to the damage roll equal to the 
weapon’s number of damage dice if you have previously 
attacked with a different weapon of the same type this 
turn. The weapons must be of the same type to benefit 
from this trait, but they don’t need to have the same runes. 

Two-Hand: This weapon can be wielded with two 
hands. Doing so changes its weapon damage die to the 
indicated value. This change applies to all the weapon’s 
damage dice, such as those from striking runes. 

Unarmed: An unarmed attack uses your body rather 
than a manufactured weapon. An unarmed attack isn’t a 
weapon, though it’s categorized with weapons for weapon 
groups, and it might have weapon traits. Since it’s part of 
your body, an unarmed attack can’t be Disarmed. It also 
doesn’t take up a hand, though a fist or other grasping 
appendage generally works like a free-hand weapon. 

Versatile: A versatile weapon can be used to deal a 
different type of damage than that listed in the Damage 
entry. This trait indicates the alternate damage type. For 
instance, a piercing weapon that is versatile S can be 
used to deal piercing or slashing damage. You choose the 
damage type each time you make an attack. 

Volley: This ranged weapon is less effective at close 
distances. Your attacks against targets that are at a 
distance within the range listed take a —2 penalty. 


CRITICAL SPECIALIZATION EFFECTS 


Certain feats, class features, weapon runes, and other 
effects can grant you additional benefits when you make 
a Strike with certain weapons and get a critical success. 
This is called a critical specialization effect. The exact 
effect depends on which weapon group your weapon 
belongs to, as listed below. You can always decide not to 
add the critical specialization effect of your weapon. 

Axe: Choose one creature adjacent to the initial target 
and within reach. If its AC is lower than your attack roll 
result for the critical hit, you deal damage to that creature 
equal to the result of the weapon damage die you rolled 
(including extra dice for its striking rune, if any). This 
amount isn’t doubled, and no bonuses or other additional 
dice apply to this damage. 

Bomb: Increase the radius of the bomb’s splash damage 
(if any) to 10 feet. 


pe ASN 


EQUIPMEN 


"WOO 
PELLS 
t 

[^ 

THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


B 


E 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


I 
DAL 
CRAFTING 


& TREASURE 


E 
CORE RULEBOOK 43 


Bow: If the target of the critical hit is adjacent to a 
surface, it gets stuck to that surface by the missile. The 
target is immobilized and must spend an Interact 
action to attempt a DC 10 Athletics check to pull 
the missile free; it can’t move from its space until 
it succeeds. The creature doesn’t become stuck if 
it is incorporeal, is liquid (like a water elemental or 
some oozes), or could otherwise escape without effort. 

Brawling: The target must succeed at a Fortitude 
save against your class DC or be slowed 1 until the end 
of your next turn. 

Club: You knock the target away from you up to 10 


feet (you choose the distance). This is forced movement 


(page 475). 

Dart: The target takes 1d6 persistent bleed damage. 
You gain an item bonus to this bleed damage equal to 
the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls. 

Flail: The target is knocked prone. 

Hammer: The target is knocked prone. 

Knife: The target takes 1d6 persistent bleed damage. 
You gain an item bonus to this bleed damage equal to 
the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls. 

Pick: The weapon viciously pierces the target, 
who takes 2 additional damage per weapon damage 
die. 


Polearm: The target is moved 5 feet in a direction 


of your choice. This is forced movement (page 475). 7 


Shield: You knock the target back from you 5 feet. 
This is forced movement (page 475). 

Sling: The target must succeed at a Fortitude save 
against your class DC or be stunned 1. 

Spear: The weapon pierces the target, weakening its 


attacks. The target is clumsy 1 until the start of your 


next turn. 

Sword: The target is made off-balance by your 
attack, becoming flat-footed until the start of your 
next turn. 


WEAPON DESCRIPTIONS 


Each of the weapons listed in Tables 6-7 and 6-8 are 
described below. 

Alchemical Bomb: These bombs come in a variety 
of types and levels of power, but no matter the variety, 
you throw the bomb at the target and it explodes, 
unleashing its alchemical blast. 

Arrow: These projectiles are the ammunition for 
bows. The shaft of an arrow is made of wood. It is 
stabilized in flight by fletching at one end and bears a 
metal head on the other. 

Bastard Sword: This  broad-bladed 
sometimes called the hand-and-a-half sword, has a 


sword, 


longer grip so it can be held in one hand or used with 
two hands to provide extra slashing power. 

Battle Axe: These axes are designed explicitly as 
weapons, rather than tools. They typically weigh less, 
with a shaft reinforced with metal bands or bolts, and have 


x 


a sharper blade, making them ideal for chopping limbs 
rather than wood. 
Bolt: Shorter than traditional arrows but similar in 
construction, bolts are the ammunition used by crossbows. 
Blowgun: This long, narrow tube is used for shooting 
blowgun darts, using only the power of a forcefully 
exhaled breath. 
Blowgun Dart: These thin, light darts are typically 
made of hardwood and stabilized with fletching of 


\ 


> 


down or fur. They are often hollow so they can be 


used to deliver poison. 

Bo Staff: This strong but slender staff is tapered 
at the ends and well balanced. It’s designed to be 
an offensive and defensive weapon. 

Clan Dagger: This broad dagger is carried by 
dwarves as a weapon, tool, and designation of clan. 

Losing or having to surrender a clan dagger is 

considered a mark of embarrassment to most dwarves. 

Club: This is a piece of stout wood shaped or repurposed 
to bludgeon an enemy. Clubs can be intricately carved 

pieces of martial art or as simple as a tree branch or 

piece of wood. 

Composite Longbow: This projectile weapon 
is made from horn, wood, and sinew laminated 
together to increase the power of its pull and the 
force of its projectile. Like all longbows, its great size 
also increases the bow’s range and power. You must 
use two hands to fire it, and it cannot be used while 
mounted. Any time an ability is specifically restricted 

to a longbow, such as Erastil’s favored weapon, it also 
applies to composite longbows unless otherwise stated. 

Composite Shortbow: This shortbow is made from horn, 
wood, and sinew laminated together to increase the power 
of its pull and the force of its projectile. Its compact size and 
power make it a favorite of mounted archers. Any time an 
ability is specifically restricted to a shortbow, it also applies 
to composite shortbows unless otherwise stated. 
Crossbow: This ranged weapon has a bow-like 
assembly mounted on a handled frame called a tiller. 

The tiller has a mechanism to lock the bowstring in 
place, attached to a trigger mechanism that releases 
the tension and launches a bolt. 

Dagger: This small, bladed weapon is held in one 
hand and used to stab a creature in close combat. It 
can also be thrown. 

Dart: This thrown weapon is larger than an 
arrow but shorter than a javelin. It typically has 
a short shaft of wood ending in a metal tip and is 
sometimes stabilized by feathers or fur. 

Dogslicer: This short, curved, and crude makeshift 
blade often has holes drilled into it to reduce its weight. 
It’s a favored weapon of goblins. 

Dwarven Waraxe: This favored weapon of the dwarves 
has a large, ornate head mounted on a thick handle. This 
powerful axe can be wielded with one hand or two. 

Elven Curve Blade: Essentially a longer version of 


the scimitar, this traditional elven weapon has a that cradles a sling. The length of the staff provides 


thinner blade than its cousin. excellent leverage when used two-handed to fling 


Falchion: This weapon is a heavier, rocks or bullets from the sling. 


two-handed version of the curved-bladed Hand Crossbow: Sometimes referred to as an 


scimitar. It is weighted toward the blade’s alley bow by rogues or ruffians, this small crossbow fires 
end, making it a powerful slashing weapon. small bolts that are sometimes used to deliver poison to 
Filcher’s Fork: This halfling weapon looks like a 


long, two-pronged fork and is used as both a weapon 


the target. It’s small enough to be shot one-handed, but it 
still requires two hands to load. 

and a cooking implement. Hatchet: This small axe can be used in close combat 
Flail: This weapon consists of a wooden handle or thrown. 
attached to a spiked ball or cylinder by a chain, rope, or Heavy Crossbow: This large crossbow is harder to 
strap of leather. load and more substantial than a regular crossbow, but 
it packs a greater punch. 

Horsechopper: Created by goblins to battle 


horses, this weapon is essentially a long shaft ending 


Gauntlet: A pair of these metal gloves comes with 
full plate, half plate, and splint armor; they can also 
be purchased separately and worn with other types 
of armor. They not only protect your hands but also in a blade with a large hook. 
transform your hands into lethal weapons. Javelin: This thin spear is well balanced for throwing 
Glaive: This polearm consists of a long, | but is not designed for melee use. 
single-edged blade on the end of a 7-foot  , y E j Ne Kama: Similar to a sickle and used in some 
pole. It is extremely effective at delivering £ ia - = regions to reap grain, a kama has a short, 
lethal cuts at a distance. a 3 slightly curved blade and a wooden handle. 

Gnome Flickmace: More a flail than 
a mace, this weapon has a short handle 
attached to a length of chain with a ball at 
the end. The ball is propelled to its reach with 
the flick of the wrist, the momentum of which brings 
the ball back to the wielder after the strike. 

Gnome Hooked Hammer: This gnome tool and 


weapon features a hammer at one end and a curved 


Katana: A katana is a curved, single-edged 
sword known for its wickedly sharped blade. 
Katar: Also known as punching daggers, 
katars are characterized by their H-shaped hand 
grip that allows the blade to jut out from the knuckles. 

Kukri: The blade of this foot-long knife curves inward 
and lacks a cross guard at the hilt. 

Lance: This spear-like weapon is used by a mounted 
pick on the other. It’s such a strange and awkward creature to deal a great deal of damage. 
weapon that others think the gnomes are slightly Light Hammer: This smaller version of the warhammer 
erratic for using it. has a wooden or metal shaft ending in a metal head. 
Greataxe: This large battle axe is too heavy to wield Unlike its heavier cousin, it is light enough to throw. 
with only one hand. Many greataxes incorporate two Light Mace: A light mace has a short wooden or metal 
blades, and they are often *bearded," having a shaft ending with a dense metal head. Used much like 
hook at the bottom to increase the strength of a club, it delivers heavy bludgeoning blows, but with 


their chopping power. extra power derived from the head's metal ridges 


Greatclub: While many greatclubs are or spikes. 


intricately carved, others are little more than Light Pick: A light pick is a modified mining implement 
a sturdy tree branch. These massive clubs are with a wooden shaft ending in a pick head crafted more 
too heavy to wield with only one hand. to pierce armor and flesh than chip rocks. 
Greatpick: This pick has a longer handle and 


broader head than a regular pick. It is too heavy to 


Longbow: This 5-foot-tall bow, usually made of a 
single piece of elm, hickory, or yew, has a powerful 
wield in one hand. draw and is excellent at propelling arrows with 
Greatsword: This immense two-handed sword is great force and at an extreme distance. You must 
nearly as tall as its wielder. Its lower blade is often use two hands to fire a longbow, and it can't be used 
somewhat dulled to allow it to be gripped for extra while mounted. 
leverage in close-quarter fights. Longspear: This very long spear, sometimes called a 
Guisarme: This polearm bears a long, often one-sided, pike, is purely for thrusting rather than throwing. Used 
curved blade with a hook protruding from the blunt by many soldiers and city watch for crowd control and 
side of the blade, which can allow its wielder to trip defense against charging enemies, it must be wielded 
opponents at a distance. Its shaft is usually 8 feet long. with two hands. 

Longsword: Longswords can be one-edged or 


two-edged swords. Their blades are heavy and they're 


Halberd: This polearm has a relatively short, 
5-foot shaft. The business end is a long spike with 
an axe blade attached. between 3 and 4 feet in length. 

Halfling Sling Staff: This staff ends in a Y-shaped split Mace: With a stout haft and a heavy metal head, a 


ES 
~i 


m 


EQUIPMENT 


- oo 


SPELLS 
a 


THE AGE OF 


_ LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


| 
| 


» 


Shortbow: This smaller bow is made of a single piece 
of wood and favored by skirmishers and cavalry. 

Shortsword: These blades come in a variety of shapes 
and styles, but they are typically 2 feet long. 

Shuriken: This “throwing star” is a small piece of flat 
metal with sharp edges, designed to be flung with a flick 
of the wrist. 

Sickle: Originally a farming tool used for reaping 
grain, this one-handed weapon has a short wooden 


mace is sturdy and allows its wielder to deliver powerful 
blows and dent armor. 

Main-Gauche: This parrying dagger features a robust 
guard to protect the wielder’s hand. 

Maul: Mauls are massive warhammers that must be 


utr: 
pean 


swung with two hands. 
Morningstar: This weapon has a short shaft ending 
in a metal ball studded with spikes. 


Nunchaku: The nunchaku is constructed of two 
wooden or metal bars connected by a short length of handle ending in a curved blade, sometimes sharpened 
on both sides. 


Sling: Little more than a leather cup attached 


rope or chain. 

Ore Knuckle Dagger: This stout, metal 
blade of orc design has a horizontal basket to a pair of straps, a sling can be used to fling 
hilt with blades jutting from each end, or smooth stones or sling bullets at a range. 
Sling Bullet: These are small metal balls, 
typically either iron or lead, designed to be used 


as ammunition in slings. 


sometimes one blade like that of a katar. 

Orc Necksplitter: This single-bladed bearded axe 
has a jagged blade that’s perfect for separating bone 
Spear: A long metal shaft ending with a metal 
spike, a spear can be used one-handed as a melee 

weapon and can be thrown. 

Spiked Chain: This 4-foot-long length of chain is 
covered with barbs and has spikes on one or both ends. 
Some feature metal hoops used as handgrips. 

Spiked Gauntlet: Providing the same defensive 


from tendon and cartilage. 
Pick: A pick designed solely for combat 


has a sturdy wooden shaft and a heavy, 
pointed head to deliver devastating blows. 
Ranseur: This polearm is a long trident with 
a central prong that’s longer than the other two. 
Rapier: The rapier is a long and thin piercing 
blade with a basket hilt. It is prized among many function as a standard gauntlet, this version has a 
as a dueling weapon. DN group of spikes protruding from the knuckles to 
deliver piercing damage with a punch. 
Staff: This long piece of wood can aid in walking 
and deliver a mighty blow. 


Starknife: From a central metal ring, four 


Sai: This piercing dagger is a metal spike flanked 
by a pair of prongs that can be used to trap an 
enemy’s weapon. 


A 


Sap: A sap has a soft wrapping around a , 
dense core, typically a leather sheath around tapering metal blades extend like points on 
a lead rod. Its head is wider than its grip to a compass rose. When gripping a starknife 
disperse the force of a blow, as the weapons “™ from the center, the wielder can use it as a melee 
purpose is to knock out its victim rather than to weapon. It can also be thrown short distances. 
draw blood. 


Sawtooth Saber: The signature weapon of the © 


| Temple Sword: This heavy blade is favored by 
' guardians of religious sites. It has a distinctive, 


Red Mantis assassins, this curved blade is serrated b^. crescent-shaped blade that seems to be a mix of a 


Scythe: Derived from a farming tool used an aid for prayer or mediation. 


like a saw, hence the name. sickle and sword. It often has holes drilled into 
Scimitar: This one-handed curved blade is 


sharp on one side. 


Eh the blade or the pommel so that bells or other 
holy trinkets can be affixed to the weapon as 


to mow down long grains and cereals, this weapon has Trident: This three-pronged, spear-like weapon 
' typically has a 4-foot shaft. Like a spear, it can be 


a long wooden shaft with protruding handles, capped 
wielded with one hand or thrown. 

War Flail: This large flail has a long shaft 

connected to a shorter piece of stout wood or 


with a curved blade set at a right angle. 

Shield Bash: A shield bash is not actually a 
weapon, but a maneuver in which you thrust or 
swing your shield to hit your foe with an metal that's sometimes inlaid with spikes. 
impromptu attack. Warhammer: This weapon has a wooden 
Shield Boss: Typically a round, 


convex, or conical piece of thick metal 


shaft ending in a large, heavy metal head. The 
head of the hammer might be single-sided 
or double-sided, but it's always capable of 
delivering powerful bludgeoning blows. 
Whip: This long strand of thick leather, 
often braided, delivers a painful but nonlethal 
slash at a distance, usually accompanied by a 
piercing damage with a shield bash. distinctive cracking sound. 


attached to the center of a shield, a 
shield boss increases the bludgeoning damage of a 
shield bash. 

Shield Spikes: These metal spikes are strategically 
placed on the defensive side of the shield to deal 


GEAR 


Your character needs all sorts of items both while exploring and in downtime, ranging 
from rations to climbing gear to fancy clothing, depending on the situation. 


OD 0 0 6 ————————————— 


GEAR STATISTICS 

Tables 6-9 and 6-10 list Price and Bulk entries for a wide 
variety of gear. Any item with a number after it in parentheses 
indicates that the item’s Price is for the indicated quantity, 
though the Bulk entry for such an item is the value for only 
one such item. All items in this chapter are level 0 unless the 
item name is followed by a higher item level in parentheses. 


HANDS 


This lists how many hands it takes to use 


the item effectively. Most items that require 
two hands can be carried in only one hand, 
but you must spend an Interact action to 
change your grip in order to use the item. 
The GM may determine that an item 

is too big to carry in one hand (or even 

two hands, for particularly large items). 


WEARING TOOLS 


You can make a set of tools (such as alchemist’s 
tools or healer’s tools) easier to use by wearing it. This 
allows you to draw and replace the tools as part of the 
action that uses them. You can wear up to 2 Bulk of tools 
in this manner; tools beyond this limit must be stowed or 
drawn with an Interact action to use. 


ADVENTURING GEAR 
These items follow special rules or require more detail. 

Adventurer’s Pack: This item is the starter kit for an 
adventurer, containing the essential items for exploration 
and survival. The Bulk value is for the entire pack together, 
but see the descriptions of individual items as necessary. 

The pack contains the following items: a backpack, a 
bedroll, 10 pieces of chalk, flint and steel, 50 feet of rope, 
2 weeks’ rations, soap, 5 torches, and a waterskin. 

Alchemist’s Lab: You need an alchemist’s lab to 
Craft alchemical items during downtime. An expanded 
alchemist’s lab gives a +1 item bonus to Crafting checks to 
create alchemical items. 

Alchemist’s Tools: This mobile collection of vials and 
chemicals can be used for simple alchemical tasks. If you 
wear your alchemist’s tools, you can draw and replace 
them as part of the action that uses them. 

Artisan’s Tools: You need these tools to create items from 
raw materials with the Craft skill. Sterling artisan’s tools 
give you a +1 item bonus to the check. Different sets are 
needed for different work, as determined by the GM; for 
example, blacksmith’s tools differ from woodworker’s tools. 
If you wear your artisan’s tools, you can draw and replace 
them as part of the action that uses them. 


Backpack: A backpack holds up to 4 Bulk of items. and 
the first 2 Bulk of these items don’t count against your 
Bulk limits. If you’re carrying or stowing the pack rather 
than wearing it on your back, its Bulk is light instead 
of negligible. 

Basic Crafter’s Book: This book contains formulas (page 
293) for Crafting the 0-level common items in this chapter. 

Caltrops: These four-pronged metal spikes can damage 
a creature’s feet. You can scatter 

caltrops in an empty square adjacent 
to you with an Interact action. The first 
creature that moves into that square 
must succeed at a DC 14 Acrobatics 
check or take 1d4 piercing damage 
and 1 persistent bleed damage. A 
creature taking persistent bleed 
damage from caltrops takes a —5-foot penalty 
N to its Speed. Spending an Interact action to 
pluck the caltrops free reduces the DC 
to stop the bleeding. Once a creature 
takes damage from caltrops, enough are 
ruined that other creatures moving into 
the square are safe. Deployed caltrops 
can be salvaged and reused if no creatures took damage 
from them. Otherwise, enough are ruined that they can't 
be salvaged. 

Candle: A lit candle sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius 
for 8 hours. 

Chest: A wooden chest can hold up to 8 Bulk of items. 

Climbing Kit: This satchel includes 50 feet of rope, 
pulleys, a dozen pitons, a hammer, a grappling hook, and 
one set of crampons. Climbing kits allow you to attach 
yourself to the wall you're Climbing, moving half as 
quickly as usual (minimum 5 feet) but letting you attempt 
a DC 5 flat check whenever you critically fail to prevent 
a fall. You gain a +1 item bonus to Athletics checks to 
Climb while using an extreme climbing kit. A single kit 
has only enough materials for one climber; each climber 
needs their own kit. If you wear your climbing kit, you 
can access it as part of a Climb action. 

Clothing: Ordinary clothing is with 
basic tailoring, such as peasant garb, monk's robes, or 


functional 


work clothes. 

Explorers clothing is sturdy enough that it can be 
reinforced to protect you, even though it isn't a suit of 
armor. It comes in many forms, though the most common 
sorts look like clerical vestments, monk's garments, 
or wizard's robes, as members of all three classes are 
likely to avoid wearing armor. For more information on 
explorer's clothing, see pages 275-276. 


EQUIPMENT 


EE Jo 


SPELLS 
- THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
= GAME 


xq NI VD rer ee eS. | 


i YATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 


i at hr el D SURE sed] 


TABLE 6-9: ADVENTURING GEAR 


Item Price Bulk Hands Item Price Bulk Hands 
Adventurer's pack 15 sp 1 = Material component pouch 5 sp L 1 
Alchemist's lab 5 gp 6 2 Merchant's scale 2 sp L 2 
Expanded alchemist'slab (level 3) 55gp 6 2 Mirror 1gp z 1 
Alchemist's tools 3 gp 1 1or2* Mug — 1cp = 1 
Artisan's tools 4 gp 2 doč Musical instrument 
Sterling artisan's tools (level 3) 50gp 2 1or2 Handheld 8 sp 1 2 
Backpack 1sp Es - Mina handheld (level 3) oe " ; 
Ea Ret d : : Virtuoso heavy (level 3) 100gp 16 2 
Caltrops 3 sp L 1 Oil (1 pint) {cp = 2 
Candle (10) 1cp = 1 Piton 1cp x 1 
Chain (10 feet) 4 gp 1 2 Rations (1 week) Asp L 1 
halb) top - i E Ud 1sp L 1 
Chest 6s 2 2 
Climbing kit 5 : 1i 2 Silver 2g L 4 
Extreme climbing kit (level 3) 40 gp 1 2 i nie ; l 
pons E z N Superb repair kit (level 3) 25 gp 1 2 
Explorer’ 1 L 2 Rope (50 feet) 5 sp L 2 
S MISI Sp Sack (5) 1cp L 1 
HU TE 2m b = Saddlebags jm L 2 
High-fashion fine (level 3) 55 gp L - Sj ; = 
: ignal whistle 8 cp 1 
Winter 4 sp L - Snare kit 5 gp 2 2 
Compass Tgp E 1 Specialist snare kit (level 3) 55gp 2 2 
Lensatic compass (level 3) 20gp =- 1 Soap 2 cp m 1 
Cookware tgp 2 2 Spellbook (blank) ig L 1 
Crowbar 5 sp IL 2 Spyglass 20 gp L 2 
Levered crowbar (level 3) 20 gp L 2 Fine spyglass (level 4) 80 gp L 2 
Disguise kit 2 gp L 2 Tia 4 gp 1 i 
Replacement cosmetics {sp — — Ten-foot pole 1cp 1 2 
Elite disguise kit (level 3) 40gp L 2 Tent 
Elite cosmetics (level 3) 5 sp - - Pup 8 sp L 2 
Fishing tackle 8 sp 1 2 Four-person 5 gp 1 2 
Professional fishing tackle (level 3) 20 gp 1 2 Pavilion (level 2) 40gp 12 2 
Flint and steel 5 cp = 2 Thieves’ tools 3 gp L 1or2 
Formula book (blank) 1gp L il Replacement picks 3 sp - E 
Grappling hook 1sp L 1 Infiltrator thieves’ tools (level3) 50gp L  1or2" 
Hammer 1sp L 1 Infiltrator picks (level 3) 3 gp - - 
Healer's tools 5 gp 1 doč Tool 
Expanded healer's tools (level 3) 50 gp 1 doč Long tool 1gp 1 2 
Holly and mistletoe 0 - 1 Short tool 4 sp L  1or2 
Hourglass 3 gp L 1 Torch — {cp L 1 
Ladder (10-foot) 3 cp 3 2 Waterskin 5 cp L 1 
Lantern Writing set 1 gp L 2 
Bull's-eye 1gp 1 1 Extra ink and paper 1sp — — 
Hooded 7 sp L 1 * You can use a set of tools with 1 hand if you're wearing 
Lock them or 2 if you're holding them. See page 287 for details. 
Poor lock (level O) 2 sp - 2 
Simple lock (level 1) 2 gp - 2 
Average lock (level 3) gp - 2 TABLE 6-10: UNCOMMON ADVENTURING GEAR 
Good lock (level 9) 200gp - 2 
Superior lock (level 17) 4500 gp — 2 Scholarly journal (level 3) 6gp L 1 
Magnifying glass (level 3) 40gp - 1 Scholarly journal compendium (level 3) 30gp L 2 
Manacles Survey map (level 3) 10gp L 1 
Poor manacles (level 0) 3 sp = 2 Survey map atlas (level 3) 50gp L 2 
Simple manacles (level 1) 3 gp E 2 
Average manacles (level 3) 20gp - 2 
Good manacles (level 9) 250gp - 2 
Superior manacles (level 17) 5000gp - 2 


CLASS KITS 

If you want to quickly decide how to spend your starting 
money on what your class needs, start with one of these kits. 
Note than an adventurer's pack, which is included in each kit, 
contains a backpack, a bedroll, 10 pieces of chalk, flint and 


steel, 50 feet of rope, 2 weeks’ rations, soap, 5 torches, and 
a waterskin. 
; Xa ALCHEMIST 
Price 8 gp, 4 sp, 2 cp; Bulk 3 Bulk, 7 light; 
Money Left Over 6 gp, 5 sp, 8 cp 
Armor studded leather armor 
Weapons dagger, sling with 20 sling bullets 
Gear adventurer's pack, alchemist's tools, basic crafter's book, 
2 sets of caltrops 
Options repair kit (2 gp) 
BARBARIAN 
Price 4 gp; Bulk 3 Bulk, 5 light; 
Money Left Over 11 gp 
Armor hide armor 
Weapons 4 javelins 
Gear adventurer's pack, grappling hook 
Options greataxe (2 gp), greatclub (1 gp), greatsword (2 gp), 
or battle axe and steel shield (3 gp) 
m BARI 
Price 7 gp, 5 sp, 2 cp; Bulk 4 Bulk, 4 light; 
Money Left Over 7 gp, 4 sp, 8 cp 
Armor studded leather armor 
Weapons dagger, rapier, sling with 20 sling bullets 
Gear adventurer's pack, handheld instrument 
j CHAMPION 
Price 4 gp, 7 sp; Bulk 3 Bulk, 7 light; 
Money Left Over 10 gp, 3 sp 
Armor hide armor 
Weapons dagger, 4 javelins 
Gear adventurer's pack, crowbar, grappling hook 
Options steel shield (2 gp), your deity's favored weapon (see 
the deity entries on pages 437-441; use the Price listed in 
this chapter) 


CLERIC 

Price 2 gp, 2 sp; Bulk 1 Bulk, 3 light; 
Money Left Over 12 gp, 8 sp 

- A Gear adventurer’s pack, 2 sets of caltrops, 

eed symbol (wooden) 

Options your deity's favored weapon (see the deity entries on 
pages 437-441; use the Price listed in this chapter), hide 
armor (2 gp) 


DRUID 

Price 4 gp, 4 sp; Bulk 4 Bulk, 4 light; 
Money Left Over 10 gp, 6 sp 

Armor leather armor 

Weapons 4 javelins, longspear 

Gear adventurer's pack, holly and mistletoe 

Options healer's tools (5 gp) 


FIGHTER 

Price 3 gp, 8 sp; Bulk 3 Bulk, 2 light; 
Money Left Over 11 gp, 2 sp 

= Armor hide armor 

Weapons dagger 

Gear adventurer's pack, grappling hook 

Options greatsword (2 gp), longbow with 20 arrows (6 gp, 
2 sp), or longsword and steel shield (3 gp) 


MONK 

Price 5 gp, 3 sp; Bulk 3 Bulk, 2 light; 
Money Left Over 9 gp, 7 sp 

Weapons 10 darts 

Gear adventurer's pack, climbing kit, grappling hook, lesser 
smokestick 

Options staff (0 sp), longspear (5 sp) 


RANGER 

Price 3 gp, 7 sp; Bulk 2 Bulk, 1 light; 
Money Left Over 11 gp, 3 sp 

Armor leather armor 

Weapons dagger 

Gear adventurer's pack 

Options longbow with 20 arrows (6 gp, 2 sp), longsword 
and steel shield (3 gp), 2 shortswords (1 gp, 8 sp), snare 
kit (5 gp) 


ROGUE 

Price 6 gp, 2 sp; Bulk 4 Bulk, 1 light; 
Money Left Over 8 gp, 8 sp 

Armor leather armor 

Weapons dagger, rapier 

Gear adventurer's pack, climbing kit 

Options thieves' tools (3 gp) 


SORCERER 

Price 2 gp, 3 sp, 2 cp; Bulk 1 Bulk, 6 light; 
Money Left Over 12 gp, 6 sp, 8 cp 

Weapons dagger, sling with 20 sling bullets 


WIZARD 
Price 3 gp; Bulk 2 Bulk, 2 light; 
Money Left Over 12 gp 
Weapons staff 
Gear adventurer's pack, material component pouch, writing set 
Options crossbow with 20 bolts (3 gp, 2 sp) 


| EQUIPMENT 


PELLS 
Wi 


m 
- THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
GAME 


CRAFTING 


B TREASURE 


> 


Fine clothing, suitable for a noble or royal, is made with 
expensive fabrics, precious metals, and intricate patterns. 
You can wear only one tool set of light Bulk with fine 
clothing, instead of the normal limit of 2 Bulk. You gain a +1 
item bonus to checks to Make an Impression on upper-class 
folk while wearing high-fashion fine clothing. 

Winter clothing allows you to negate the damage from 
severe environmental cold and 
reduce the damage from extreme 
cold to that of severe cold. 

Compass: 
you Sense Direction or navigate, 


A compass helps 


provided youre in a location 
with uniform magnetic fields. 
Without a compass, you take a 
-2 item penalty to these checks 
(similar to using a shoddy item). A 
lensatic compass gives you a +1 item 
bonus to these checks. 

Crowbar: When Forcing Open an 

object that doesn't have an easy grip, 
a crowbar makes it easier to gain the necessary leverage. 
Without a crowbar, prying something open takes a —2 
item penalty to the Athletics check to Force Open. A 
levered crowbar grants you a +1 item bonus to Athletics 
checks to Force Open anything that can be pried open. 

Disguise Kit: This small wooden box contains cosmetics, 
false facial hair, spirit gum, and a few simple wigs. You 
usually need a disguise kit to set up a disguise in order to 
Impersonate someone using the Deception skill. An elite 
disguise kit adds a +1 item bonus to relevant checks. If 
you’ve crafted a large number of disguises, you can replenish 
your cosmetics supply with replacement cosmetics suitable 
for the type of your disguise kit. You can draw and replace a 
worn disguise kit as part of the action that uses it. 

Fishing Tackle: This kit include a collapsible fishing 
pole, fishhooks, line, lures, and a fishing net. Professional 
fishing tackle grants a +1 item bonus to checks to fish. 

Flint and Steel: Flint and steel are useful in creating a 
fire if you have the time to catch a spark, though using 
them is typically too time-consuming to be practical 
during an encounter. Even in ideal conditions, using flint 
and steel to light a flame requires using at least 3 actions, 
and often significantly longer. 

Formula Book: A formula book holds the formulas 
necessary to make items other than the common 
equipment from this chapter; alchemists typically get one 
for free. Each formula book can hold the formulas for 
up to 100 different items. Formulas can also appear on 
parchment sheets, tablets, and almost any other medium; 
there’s no need for you to copy them into a specific book 
as long as you can keep them on hand to reference them. 

Grappling Hook: You can throw a grappling hook 
with a rope tied to it to make a climb easier. To anchor a 
grappling hook, make an attack roll with the secret trait 
against a DC depending on the target, typically at least 


DC 20. On a success, your hook has a firm hold, but 
on a critical failure, the hook seems like it will hold but 
actually falls when you’re partway up. 

Healer’s Tools: This kit of bandages, herbs, and suturing 
tools is necessary for Medicine checks to Administer 
First Aid, Treat Disease, Treat Poison, or Treat Wounds. 

P ^ Expanded healer’s tools provide a +1 
el item bonus to such checks. If you wear 
= 5*5 your healer’s tools, you can draw and 
| replace them as part of the action that 
uses them. 

Holly and Mistletoe: 
of supernatural 


Plants 
significance 
provide a primal focus for 
primal spellcasters, such as 
druids, 
abilities and casting some spells. 
A bundle of holly and mistletoe 


must be held in one hand to use 


when using certain 


it. Other primal foci exist for druids 
focused on other aspects of nature. 

Lantern: A lantern sheds bright light and requires 1 pint 
of oil to function for 6 hours. A bull’s-eye lantern emits its 
light in a 60-foot cone (and dim light in the next 60 feet). 
A hooded lantern sheds light in a 30-foot radius (and dim 
light in the next 30 feet) and is equipped with shutters, 
which you can close to block the light. Closing or opening 
the shutters takes an Interact action. 

Lock: Picking a poor lock requires two successful DC 
15 Thievery checks, a simple lock requires three successful 
DC 20 Thievery checks, an average lock requires four 
successes at DC 25, a good lock requires five successes at 
DC 30, and a superior lock six successes at DC 40. 

Magnifying Glass: This quality handheld lens gives you 
a +1 item bonus to Perception checks to notice minute 
details of documents, fabric, and the like. 

Manacles: You can manacle someone who is willing or 
otherwise at your mercy as an exploration activity taking 
10-30 seconds depending on the creature’s size and how 
many manacles you apply. A two-legged creature with 
its legs bound takes a -15-foot circumstance penalty 
to its Speeds, and a two-handed creature with its wrists 
bound has to succeed at a DC 5 flat check any time it 
uses a manipulate action or else that action fails. This DC 
may be higher depending on how tightly the manacles 
constrain the hands. A creature bound to a stationary 
object is immobilized. For creatures with more or fewer 
limbs, the GM determines what effect manacles have, 
if any. Freeing a creature from poor manacles requires 
two successful DC 17 Thievery checks, simple manacles 
requires three successes at DC 22, average manacles 
require four successes at DC 27, good manacles require 
five successes at DC 32, and superior manacles require 
six successes at DC 42. 

Material Component Pouch: This pouch contains 
material components for those spells that require them. 


Though the components are used up over time, you can 
refill spent components during your daily preparations. 

Musical Instrument: Handheld instruments include 
bagpipes, a small set of chimes, small drums, fiddles and 
viols, flutes and recorders, small harps, lutes, trumpets, 
and similarly sized instruments. The GM might rule 
that an especially large handheld instrument (like a 
tuba) has greater Bulk. Heavy instruments such as 
large drums, a full set of chimes, and keyboard 
instruments are less portable and generally 
need to be stationary while being played. 

A virtuoso instrument gives a +1 
item bonus to Performance checks using 
that instrument. 

Oil: You can use oil to fuel lanterns, but you can 
also set a pint of oil aflame and throw it. You must 
first spend an Interact action preparing the oil, then 
throw it with another action as a ranged attack. If 
you hit, it splatters on the creature or in a single 5-foot 
square you target. You must succeed at a DC 10 flat 
check for the oil to ignite successfully when it hits. If the 
oil ignites, the target takes 1d6 fire damage. 

Piton: These small spikes can be used as anchors to 
make climbing easier. To affix a piton, you must hold it in 
one hand and use a hammer to drive it in with your other 
hand. You can attach a rope to the hammered piton so 
that you don’t fall all the way to the ground on a critical 
failure while Climbing. 

Religious Symbol: This piece of wood or silver is 
emblazoned with an image representing a deity. Some 
divine spellcasters, such as clerics, can use a religious 
symbol of their deity as a divine focus to use certain 
abilities and cast some spells. A religious symbol must be 
held in one hand to use it. 

Religious Text: This manuscript contains scripture of 
a particular religion. Some divine spellcasters, such as 
clerics, can use a religious text as a divine focus to use 
certain abilities and cast some spells. A religious text 
must be held in one hand to use it. 

Repair Kit: A repair kit allows you to perform simple 
repairs while traveling. It contains a portable anvil, tongs, 
woodworking tools, a whetstone, and oils for conditioning 
leather and wood. You can use a repair kit to Repair items 
using the Crafting skill. A superb repair kit gives you a 
+1 item bonus to the check. You can draw and replace a 
worn repair kit as part of the action that uses it. 

Sack: A sack can hold up to 8 Bulk worth of items. A 
sack containing 2 Bulk or less can be worn on the body, 
usually tucked into a belt. You can carry a sack with one 
hand, but must use two hands to transfer items in and out. 

Saddlebags: Saddlebags come in a pair. Each can hold 
up to 3 Bulk of items, and the first 1 Bulk of items in each 
doesn’t count against your mount’s Bulk limit. The Bulk 
value given is for saddlebags worn by a mount. If you 
are carrying or stowing saddlebags, they count as 1 Bulk 
instead of light Bulk. 


Scholarly Journal: Scholarly journals are uncommon. 
Each scholarly journal is a folio on a very specific topic, 
such as vampires or the history of a single town or 
neighborhood of a city. If you spend 1 minute referencing 
an academic journal before attempting a skill check 
to Recall Knowledge about the subject, you gain a 
+1 item bonus to the check. A compendium of 
journals costs five times as much as a single 
journal and requires both hands to use; each 
compendium contains several journals and 
grants its bonus on a broader topic, 
such as all undead or a whole city. The 
GM determines what scholarly journals 
are available in any location. 

Signal Whistle: When sounded, a signal whistle 
can be heard clearly up to half a mile away across 
open terrain. 

Snare Kit: This kit contains tools and materials for 
creating snares. A snare kit allows you to Craft snares 
using the Crafting skill. A specialist snare kit gives you 
a +1 item bonus to the check. You can draw and replace 
a worn snare kit as part of the action to use it. 

Spellbook: A spellbook holds the written knowledge 
necessary to learn and prepare various spells, a necessity 
for wizards (who typically get one for free) and a useful 
luxury for other spellcasters looking to learn additional 
spells. Each spellbook can hold up to 100 spells. The 
Price listed is for a blank spellbook. 

Spyglass: A typical spyglass lets you see eight times 
farther than normal. A fine spyglass adds a +1 item bonus 
to Perception checks to notice details at a distance. 

Survey Map: Maps are uncommon. Most maps you 
can find are simple and functional. A survey map details 
a single location in excellent detail. One of these maps 
gives you a +1 item bonus to Survival checks and any 
skill checks to Recall Knowledge, provided the checks 
are related to the location detailed on the map. Maps 
sometimes come in atlases, containing a number of maps 
of the same quality, often on similar topics. An atlas 
costs five times as much as a single map and requires 
both hands to use. The GM determines what maps are 
available in any location. 

Tack: Tack includes all the gear required to outfit a 
riding animal, including a saddle, bit and bridle, and 
stirrups if necessary. Especially large or oddly shaped 
animals might require specialty saddles. These can be 
more expensive or hard to find, as determined by the 
GM. The Bulk value given is for tack worn by a creature. 
If carried, the Bulk increases to 2. 

Ten-Foot Pole: When wielding this long pole, you can 
use Seek to search a square up to 10 feet away. The pole 
is not sturdy enough to use as a weapon. 

Thieves’ Tools: You need thieves’ tools to Pick Locks or 
Disable Devices (of some types) using the Thievery skill. 
Infiltrator thieves’ tools add a +1 item bonus to checks to 
Pick Locks and Disable Devices. If your thieves’ tools are 


EQUIPMENT 


Dg 


iz. 


PELLS 
Li 


[^ 
.. THE ABE DF 
"b LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


^l 


GAME 
» 


PDAP 
LRAT 


| & TREASURE 


> 
ADD 


ALT 
A= 


ne 
ND 


[= 


broken, you can repair them by replacing the lock picks 
with replacement picks appropriate to your tools; this 
doesn’t require using the Repair action. If you wear your 
thieves’ tools, you can draw and replace them as part of 
the action that uses them. 

Tool: This entry is a catchall for basic hand tools that 
don’t have a specific adventuring purpose. A hoe, shovel, 
or sledgehammer is a long tool, and a hand drill, ice hook, 
or trowel is a short tool. A tool can usually be used as 
an improvised weapon, dealing 1d4 damage for a short 
tool or 1d6 for a long tool. The GM determines the 
damage type that’s appropriate or adjusts the damage 
if needed. 

Torch: A torch sheds bright light in a 20-foot 
radius (and dim light to the next 20 feet) for 1 
hour. It can be used as an improvised weapon 
that deals 1d4 bludgeoning damage plus 1 
fire damage. 

Waterskin: When it’s full, a 
waterskin contains roughly 1 day’s 
worth of water for a Small or 
Medium creature. 

Writing Set: Using a writing set, you 
can draft correspondence and scribe scrolls. A 
set includes stationery, including a variety of paper 
and parchment, as well as ink, a quill or inkpen, 
sealing wax, and a simple seal. If you’ve written a large 
amount, you can refill your kit with extra ink and paper. 


ALCHEMICAL GEAR 
The items listed on Table 6-11 are the most 
widely available alchemical items from 
Chapter 11, which a 1st-level character 
could likely access. The descriptions 
below are incomplete; each item’s full 
entry appears in Chapter 11 on the 

page listed in the table. Your GM 

might allow you to start with other 

alchemical items from Chapter 11 on a 

case-by-case basis. 


TABLE 6-11: ALCHEMICAL GEAR 


Alchemical Bombs Price Bulk Page 
Lesser acid flask 3 gp L 544 
Lesser alchemist's fire 3 gp IL 545 
Lesser bottled lightning 3 gp IL 545 
Lesser frost vial 3 gp L 545 
Lesser tanglefoot bag 3gp L 545 
Lesser thunderstone 3 gp L 545 
Elixirs Price Bulk Page 
Lesser antidote 3gp L 546 
Lesser antiplague 3 gp L 546 
Minor elixir of life 3gp L 548 
Alchemical Tools Price Bulk Page 
Lesser smokestick 3 gp L 554 


Sunrod 3 gp L 554 
Tindertwig (10) 2 sp - 554 


ALCHEMICAL BOMBS 


Alchemical bombs are consumable weapons that deal 
damage or produce special effects, and they sometimes 
deal splash damage. For more on alchemical bombs, see 
page 544. 

Lesser Acid Flask: This alchemical bomb deals 1 
acid damage, 1d6 persistent acid damage, and 1 acid 
splash damage. 

Lesser Alchemist’s Fire: This alchemical 

bomb deals 1d8 fire damage, 1 persistent 
fire damage, and 1 fire splash damage. 
Lesser Bottled Lightning: This 
alchemical bomb deals 1d6 electricity 
damage and 1 electricity splash damage, 
and it makes the target flat-footed. 
Lesser Frost Vial: This alchemical bomb 
deals 1d6 cold damage and 1 cold splash 
damage, and it gives the target a —5-foot status 
penalty to its Speeds until the end of its next turn. 
Lesser Tanglefoot Bag: This alchemical bomb 
gives the target a -10-foot status penalty to its Speeds 
for 1 minute, and the target is immobilized on a critical 
hit unless it Escapes. 
Lesser Thunderstone: This alchemical bomb deals 
1d4 sonic damage and 1 sonic splash damage, and any 
creature within 10 feet that fails a DC 17 Fortitude 
save is deafened until the end of its turn. 


ELIXIRS 


Elixirs are alchemical items you drink to gain 
various unusual effects. For more on elixirs, 
see page 546. 
Lesser Antidote: After drinking a lesser 
antidote, you gain a +2 item bonus to 
Fortitude saves against poison for 6 hours. 
Lesser Antiplague: After drinking a lesser 
antiplague, you gain a +2 item bonus to 
Fortitude saves against disease for 24 hours, 
including your saves against diseases’ progression. 
Minor Elixir of Life: Drinking a minor elixir of life 
restores 1d6 Hit Points and grants a «1 item bonus 
to saving throws against diseases and poisons for 
10 minutes. 


ALCHEMICAL TOOLS 


Alchemical tools are a type of alchemical item you use, 
rather than drink or throw. For more on alchemical tools, 
see page 564. 

Smokestick: You create a 5-foot radius smokescreen 
for 1 minute. 

Sunrod: You can strike a sunrod on a hard surface as 
an Interact action to cause it to shed bright light in a 
20-foot radius (dim light in the next 20 feet) for 6 hours. 


Tindertwig: You can use a tindertwig to ignite 
something flammable with a single Interact action, faster 
than with flint and steel. 


MAGICAL GEAR 

The items on Table 6-12 are the magic items from Chapter 
11 that a 1st-level character could most frequently access. 
The descriptions below are incomplete; the items’ full 
entries appear in Chapter 11 on the pages listed in the 
table. Your GM might allow you to start with other 
magic items from Chapter 11 on a case-by-case basis. 


TABLE 6-12: MAGICAL GEAR 


Holy water 3 gp L 571 

Unholy water 3 gp L 571 

Potions Price Bulk Page 
Minor healing potion 4gp L 563 
Scrolls Price Bulk Page 
Scroll of a common 1st-level spell 4 gp L 565 
Talismans Price Bulk Page 
Potency crystal 4 gp = 568 


CONSUMABLE MAGIC ITEMS 


You can typically purchase holy and unholy water in 
a settlement. Particularly good settlements tend to ban 
unholy water and evil settlements tend to ban holy water. 

Holy Water: You can throw holy water like a bomb, 
dealing 1d6 good damage to fiends, undead, and other 
creatures with a weakness to good damage. 

Unholy Water: You can throw unholy water like a 
bomb, dealing 1d6 evil damage to celestials and other 
creatures with a weakness to evil damage. 


POTIONS 


Potions are magic items you drink to gain a variety of 
benefits. For more on potions, see page 562. 

Minor Healing Potion: After drinking a minor healing 
potion, you regain 1d8 Hit Points. 


SCROLLS 


Scrolls are magical scriptures that hold the necessary magic 
to cast a particular spell without using your spell slots. 
The Price listed in the table is for a scroll with a common 
1st-level spell. For more on scrolls, see page 564. 


TALISMANS 


A talisman is a special, single-use item you affix to your 
armor, a weapon, or elsewhere, allowing you to activate 
the talisman later for a special benefit. For more on 
talismans, see page 565. 

Potency Crystal: When you affix the crystal to a weapon 
and activate it, this talisman empowers the weapon for 
the rest of the turn, granting it a +1 item bonus to attack 
rolls and a second weapon damage die. 


EQUIPMENT 


a 


FORMULAS 
Formulas are instructions for making items with the 
Craft activity. You can usually read a formula as long 
as you can read the language it’s written in, though you 
might lack the skill to Craft the item. Often, alchemists 
and crafting guilds use obscure languages or create codes 
to protect their formulas from rivals. 

You can buy common formulas at the Price listed on 
Table 6-13, or you can hire an NPC to let you copy 
their formula for the same Price. A purchased formula 
is typically a schematic on rolled-up parchment of light 
Bulk. You can copy a formula into your formula book in 
1 hour, either from a schematic or directly from someone 
else’s formula book. If you have a formula, you can 
Craft a copy of it using the Crafting skill. Formulas for 
uncommon items and rare items are usually significantly 
more valuable—if you can find them at all! 

If you have an item, you can try to reverse-engineer 
its formula. This uses the Craft activity and takes the 
same amount of time as creating the item from a formula 
would. You must first disassemble the item. After the 
base downtime, you attempt a Crafting check against the 
same DC it would take to Craft the item. If you succeed, 
you Craft the formula at its full Price, and you can keep 
working to reduce the Price as normal. If you fail, you’re 
left with raw materials and no formula. If you critically 
fail, you also waste 10% of the raw materials you’d 
normally be able to salvage. 

The item’s disassembled parts are worth half its Price 
in raw materials and can’t be reassembled unless you 
successfully reverse-engineer the formula or acquire the 
formula another way. Reassembling the item from the 
formula works just like Crafting it from scratch; you use 
the disassembled parts as the necessary raw materials. 


TABLE 6-13: FORMULAS 
Item Level Formula Price Item Level Formula Price 

OF 5 sp 1i 70 gp 

1 1gp 12 100 gp 
2 2 gp 13 150 gp 
3 3gp 14 225 gp 
4 5gp 15 325 gp 
5 8 gp 16 500 gp 
6 13 gp 17 750 gp 
7 18 gp 18 1,200 gp 
8 25 gp 19 2,000 gp 
9 35 gp 20 3,500 gp 
10 50 gp 


* Formulas for all O-level common items from this chapter 
can be purchased collectively in a basic crafter's book. 


ITEMS WITH MULTIPLE TYPES 


If an item has multiple types of different levels, each 
type has its own formula, and you need the formula for 
the specific type of item you want to Craft. For example, 
if you have a formula for a type I bag of holding but not 


| EQUIPMENT 
z, Og 
. SPELLS 
WE 

| THE AGE OF 
-LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


T 


| B TREASURE 


: AP p ND 


e 


Roque t IIT — Hm epo DIM en 


* | PATHFİNDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


SS i 


for a type II bag of holding, you must acquire a separate 
formula to Craft a type II bag of holding. 


SERVICES 


The services listed on Table 6-14 describe expenditures 
for common services and consumables. 


TABLE 6-14: BASIC SERVICES AND CONSUMABLES 


Item Price Bulk Hands 
Beverages 
Mug of ale {cp L 1 
Keg of ale 2sp 2 2 
Pot of coffee or tea 2 cp L 1 
Bottle of wine 1sp IL 1 
Bottle of fine wine 1 gp L 1 
Hireling (1 day) 
Unskilled 1sp 
Skilled 5 sp 
Lodging (1 day) 
Floor space 3 cp 
Bed (for 1) 1sp 
Private room (for 2) 8 sp 
Extravagant suite (for 6) 10 gp 
Meals 
Poor meal 1cp L 2 
Square meal 3 cp IL 2 
Fine dining 1gp L 2 
Stabling (1 day) 2cp 
Toll at least 1 cp 
Transportation (per 5 miles) 
Caravan 3 cp 
Carriage 2 sp 
Ferry or riverboat 4 cp 
Sailing ship 6 cp 


HIRELINGS 


Paid laborers can provide services for you. Unskilled 
hirelings can perform simple manual labor and are 
untrained at most skills. Skilled hirelings have expert 
proficiency in a particular skill. Hirelings are level 0. If 
a skill check is needed, an untrained hireling has a «0 
modifier, while a skilled hireling has a +4 modifier in their 
area of expertise and «0 for other skill checks. Hirelings' 
rates double if they're going adventuring with you. 


TRANSPORTATION 


The cost to hire transportation includes standard travel 
with no amenities. Most transit services provide basic 
sleeping arrangements, and some provide meals at the 
rates listed on Table 6-14. Arranging transportation into 
dangerous lands can be more expensive or impossible. 


SPELLCASTING 


Spellcasting services, listed on Table 6-15, are uncommon. 
Having a spell cast for you requires finding a spellcaster 


who knows and is willing to cast it. It’s hard to find 
someone who can cast higher-level spells, and uncommon 
spells typically cost at least 100% more, if you can find 
someone who knows them at all. Spells that take a long 
time to cast (over 1 minute) usually cost 25% more. You 
must pay any cost listed in the spell in addition to the 


Price on the table. 


TABLE 6-15: SPELLCASTING SERVICES 


Spell Level Price" Spell Level Price" 
1st 3 gp 6th 160 gp 
2nd 7 gp 7th 360 gp 
3rd 18 gp 8th 720 gp 
4th 40 gp 9th 1,800 gp 
5th 80 gp 


* Plus any cost required to cast the specific spell. 


COST OF LIVING 


Table 6-16 shows how much it costs to get by. This covers 
room and board, dues, taxes, and other fees. 


TABLE 6-16: COST OF LIVING 


Standard of Living Week Month Year 
Subsistence" 4 sp 2 gp 24 gp 
Comfortable 1gp 4gp 52 gp 
Fine 30 gp 130 gp 1,600 gp 
Extravagant 100 gp 430 gp 5,200 gp 


* You can attempt to Subsist using Society or Survival (page 
240) for free. 


ANIMALS 

The Prices for animals are listed both for renting and for 
purchasing them outright. You usually need to pay for 
animal rentals up front, and if the vendor believes the 
animal might be put in danger, they typically require a 
deposit equal to the purchase Price. Most animals panic 
in battle. When combat begins, they become frightened 
4 and fleeing as long as they're frightened. If you 
successfully Command your Animal using Nature (page 
249), you can keep it from fleeing, though this doesn't 
remove its frightened condition. If the animal is attacked 
or damaged, it returns to frightened 4 and fleeing, with 
the same exceptions. 

Warhorses and warponies are combat trained. They 
don't become frightened or fleeing during encounters in 
this way. 

Statistics for the animals appear in the Pathfinder Bestiary. 


TABLE 6-17: ANIMALS 
Rental Price" Purchase 
Animal (per day) Price 
Dog 
Guard dog 1 cp per day 2 sp 
Riding dog 6 cp per day 4 gp 


Horse 
Riding horse 1 sp per day 8 gp 
Warhorse 1 gp per day 30 gp (level 2) 
Pack animal 2 cp per day 2 gp 
Pony 
Riding pony 8 cp per day 7 gp 
Warpony 8 sp per day 24 gp (level 2) 


* Might require a deposit equal to the purchase Price. 


BARDING 


You can purchase special armor for animals, called 
barding (shown on Table 6-18). All animals have a trained 
proficiency rank in light barding, and combat-trained 
animals are trained in heavy barding. Barding uses the 
same rules as armor except for the following. The Price 
and Bulk of barding depend on the animal's size. Unlike 
for a suit of armor, barding's Strength entry is listed as a 
modifier, not a score. Barding can't be etched with magic 
runes, though special magical barding might be available. 


ITEMS AND SIZES 

The Bulk rules in this chapter are for Small and Medium 
creatures, as the items are made for creatures of those 
sizes. Large creatures can carry more, and smaller 
creatures can carry less, as noted on Table 6-19. 

These rules for Bulk limits come up most often when a 
group tries to load up a mount or animal companion. The 
rules for items of different sizes tend to come into play 
when the characters defeat a big creature that has gear, 
since in most cases, the only creatures of other sizes are 
creatures under the GM's control. In most cases, Small or 
Medium creatures can wield a Large weapon, though it's 
unwieldy, giving them the clumsy 1 condition, and the 
larger size is canceled by the difficulty of swinging the 
weapon, so it grants no special benefit. Large armor is 
simply too large for Small and Medium creatures. 


BULK CONVERSIONS FOR DIFFERENT SIZES 


As shown in Table 6-19, Large or larger creatures are 
less encumbered by bulky items than Small or Medium 
creatures, while Tiny creatures become overburdened 
more quickly. A Large creature treats 10 items of 1 Bulk 
as 1 Bulk, a Huge creature treats 10 items of 2 Bulk 
as 1 Bulk, and so on. A Tiny creature treats 10 items 
of negligible Bulk as 1 Bulk. Negligible items work in 
a similar way—a Huge creature treats items of 1 Bulk 


TABLE 6-18: BARDING 

Light Barding Price ACBonus DexCap 
Small or Medium 10 gp +1 +5 
Large 20 gp +1 +5 
Heavy Barding Price AC Bonus Dex Cap 
Small or Medium (level 2) 25 gp +3 +3 
Large (level 3) 50 gp +3 +3 


cp a aa E BE 


a 


aye 


as negligible, so it can carry any number of items of 1 
Bulk. A Tiny creature doesn’t treat any items as having 
negligible Bulk. 


TABLE 6-19: BULK CONVERSIONS 


Creature Bulk Treats Treats as 
Size Limit as Light Negligible 
Tiny Half — none 
Small or Med. Standard L — 
Large x2 1 Bulk L 
Huge x4 2 Bulk 1 Bulk 
Gargantuan x8 4 Bulk 2 Bulk 


ITEMS OF DIFFERENT SIZES 

Creatures of sizes other than Small or Medium need items 
appropriate to their size. These items have different Bulk 
and possibly a different Price. Table 6-20 provides the 
Price and Bulk conversion for such items. 


TABLE 6-20: DIFFERENTLY SIZED ITEMS 


Creature Light Negligible 
Size Price Bulk Becomes Becomes 
Tiny Standard Half — — 
Small or Med. Standard Standard L — 
Large x2 x2 1 Bulk L 
Huge x4 x4 2 Bulk 1 Bulk 
Gargantuan x8 x8 4 Bulk 2 Bulk 


* An item that would have its Bulk reduced below 1 has 
light Bulk. 


For example, a morningstar sized for a Medium 
creature has a Price of 1 gp and 1 Bulk, so one made for a 
Huge creature has a Price of 4 gp and 4 Bulk. One made 
for a Tiny creature still costs 1 gp (due to its intricacy) 
and has 1/2 Bulk, which rounds down to light Bulk. 

Because the way that a creature treats Bulk and the 
Bulk of gear sized for it scale the same way, Tiny or 
Large (or larger) creatures can usually wear and carry 
about the same amount of appropriately sized gear as a 
Medium creature. 

Higher-level magic items that cost significantly more 
than 8 times the cost of a mundane item can use their 
listed Price regardless of size. Precious materials, however, 
have a Price based on the Bulk of the item, so multiply 
the Bulk value as described on Table 6-20, then use the 
formula in the precious material's entry to determine the 
item's Price. See page 578 for more information. 


Check Penalty Speed Penalty Bulk Strength 
-1 -5 ft. 2 +3 
-1 -5 ft. 4 +3 
Check Penalty Speed Penalty Bulk Strength 
-3 -10 ft. 4 +5 
-3 -10 ft. 8 +5 


EQUIPMENT 


EQUIPMENT 


PLAYING THE 
.. BAME 


» 


=) 


CDATHEINDER] cone nuienoox } 


CHAPTER 7: SPELLS 


Whether it comes in the form of mystic artifacts, mysterious creatures, or wizards weaving 


strange spells, magic brings fantasy and wonder to Pathfinder. This chapter explains how spells 


work and how spellcasters prepare and cast their spells. 


RACC 


With special gestures and utterances, a spellcaster can call forth mystic energies, 
warp the mind, protect themself against danger, or even create something from 
nothing. Each class has its own method of learning, preparing, and casting spells, 
and every individual spell produces a specific effect, so learning new spells gives a 
spellcaster an increasing array of options to accomplish their goals. 


TRADITION AND SCHOOL 

The fundamental building blocks of magic are the magical traditions and the schools 
of magic. The four traditions are arcane, divine, occult, and primal. A spell’s magical 
tradition can vary, because many spells can be cast using different traditions. A spell’s 
school, on the other hand, is intrinsic to the spell and establishes what the spell is 
capable of. Abjuration spells, for example, can raise protective wards, enchantment 
spells can change thoughts, and evocation spells can create blasts of fire. 


MAGICAL SCHOOLS 
All spells, all magic items, and most other magical effects fall into one of the eight 
schools of magic. These schools broadly define what the magic is capable of. Every 
spell has the trait corresponding to its school. Some spellcasters, like specialist 
wizards, have particular acumen with a certain school of magic. 


ABJURATION 


Abjurations protect and ward. They create barriers that keep out attacks, 
effects, or even certain types of creatures. They also create effects that harm 
trespassers or banish interlopers. 


CONJURATION 


Conjuration spells transport creatures via teleportation, create an object, or 
bring a creature or object from somewhere else (typically from another 
plane) to follow your commands. 

Conjuration spells often have the teleportation trait, and the 
creatures summoned by conjuration spells have the summoned trait. 


DIVINATION 


Divinations allow you to learn the secrets of the present, past, 
and future. They bestow good fortune, grant you the ability to 
perceive remote locations, and reveal secret knowledge. 

Divinations often have the detection trait if they find something, the prediction 
trait if they grant you insight about what might happen in the future, the revelation 
trait if they show things as they truly are, or the scrying trait if they let you perceive 
another location. 


ENCHANTMENT 


Enchantments affect the minds and emotions of other creatures—sometimes to 
influence and control them, and other times to bolster them to greater heights 
of courage. Enchantment spells almost always have the mental trait, and many have 
the emotion trait or the fear trait. 


SPELLBOOKS 
Carefully maintained and 
jealously guarded, there are 
few things more valuable to a 
wizard than a spellbook. These 
repositories of magical lore are 
often trapped and warded to 
ensure that no one meddles 
with the secrets inside. 
Although spellbooks play 
a central role in a wizard's 
daily routine, other prepared 
spellcasting classes have been 
known to use spellbooks to 
record uncommon or even rare 
spells. Such a resource allows 
a caster to treat the spell like 
any other common spell, so long 
as they can reference the book 
during their daily preparations. 


ke ea eee ae | 


FINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 


at — A Ao Et i 


SPELL ATTACK ROLL AND SPELL DC 
Many spells allow creatures to defend themselves using 
either their AC or a saving throw. Two statistics govern 
how potent your spells are against these defenses: your 
spell attack roll and your spell DC. When recording these 
on your character sheet, add together only the numbers 
that always apply—usually just your ability modifier and 
proficiency bonus. 


Spell attack roll = your spellcasting ability modifier + 
proficiency bonus * other bonuses * penalties 


Spell DC = 10 + your spellcasting ability modifier + 
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties 


A spell attack roll is like other attack rolls, so any bonuses 
or penalties that apply to all your attack rolls should be 
included in your calculation. For instance, the +1 status 
bonus from the bless spell would benefit your spell ray just 
like it could an arrow. However, note that the spell attack roll 
doesnt gain any bonuses or penalties that apply specifically 
to weapon attacks or unarmed attacks. The multiple attack 
penalty applies to spell attacks, so it’s usually a bad idea to 
cast a spell that has a spell attack roll if you've already made 
an attack that turn. 

As with other checks and DCs, bonuses can increase the 
result of your spell attack roll or your spell DC, and penalties 
can decrease the result of your spell attack roll or your spell 
DC. See pages 444-445 in Chapter 9: Playing the Game for 
more information about modifiers, bonuses, and penalties. 


DISBELIEVING ILLUSIONS 
Sometimes illusions allow an affected creature a chance 
to disbelieve the spell, which lets the creature effectively 
ignore the spell if it succeeds at doing so. This usually 
happens when a creature Seeks or otherwise spends 
actions to engage with the illusion, comparing the result 
of its Perception check (or another check or saving throw, 
at the GM's discretion) to the caster's spell DC. Mental 
illusions typically provide rules in the spell's description 
for disbelieving the effect (often allowing the affected 
creature to attempt a Will save). 

If the illusion is visual, and a creature interacts with 
the illusion in a way that would prove it is not what 
it seems, the creature might know that an illusion is 
present, but it still cant ignore the illusion without 
successfully disbelieving it. For instance, if a character 
is pushed through the illusion of a door, they will know 
that the door is an illusion, but they still can't see 
through it. Disbelieving an illusion makes it and those 
things it blocks seem hazy and indistinct, so even in the 
case where a visual illusion is disbelieved, it may, at the 
GM's discretion, block vision enough to make those on 
the other side concealed. 


EVOCATION 


Evocations capture magical energy and then shape it to 
harm your foes or protect your allies. Evocation spells 
often have a trait that comes from the type of damage 
they deal, such as acid, cold, fire, force, or sonic. 


ILLUSION 


Illusions create the semblance of something real, fooling 
the eyes, ears, and other senses. Depending on how the 
illusion is perceived, it might have the auditory or visual 
traits, and some also have the mental trait. 


NECROMANCY 


Necromancy spells harness the power of life and death. 
They can sap life essence or sustain creatures with 
life-saving healing. Necromancy spells often have the 
curse, death, healing, negative, or positive traits. 


TRANSMUTATION 


Transmutation spells make alterations to or transform 
the physical form of a creature or object. The morph and 
polymorph traits appear primarily in transmutation spells. 


SPELL SLOTS 

Characters of spellcasting classes can cast a certain 
number of spells each day; the spells you can cast in a 
day are referred to as spell slots. At 1st level, a character 
has only a small number of 1st-level spell slots per day, 
but as you advance in level, you gain more spell slots and 
new slots for higher-level spells. A spell’s level indicates its 
overall power, from 1 to 10. 


PREPARED SPELLS 


If you’re a prepared spellcaster—such as a cleric, druid, or 
wizard—you must spend time each day preparing spells for 
that day. At the start of your daily preparations, you select 
a number of spells of different spell levels determined by 
your character level and class. Your spells remain prepared 
until you cast them or until you prepare spells again. 

Each prepared spell is expended after a single casting, 
so if you want to cast a particular spell more than once in 
a day, you need to prepare that spell multiple times. The 
exceptions to this rule are spells with the cantrip trait; 
once you prepare a cantrip, you can cast it as many times 
as you want until the next time you prepare spells. See 
page 300 for more information on cantrips. 

You might gain an ability that allows you to swap 
prepared spells or perform other aspects of preparing 
spells at different times throughout the day, but only your 
daily preparation counts for the purpose of effects that 
last until the next time you prepare spells. 


SPONTANEOUS SPELLS 


If you’re a spontaneous spellcaster—such as a bard or 
a sorcerer—you choose which spell you’re using a spell 


Arcane 
Arcane spellcasters use logic 
and rationality to categorize 
the magic inherent in the 
world around them. Because 
of its far-reaching approach, 
the arcane tradition has 
the broadest spell list, 


MAGICAL TRADITIONS 


Spellcasters cast spells from one of four different spell 
lists, each representing a different magical tradition: 
arcane, divine, occult, and primal. 

Your class determines which tradition of magic your 
spells use. In some cases, such as when a cleric gains 
spells from their deity or when a sorcerer gets spells 
from their bloodline, you might be able to cast spells 


Divine 
The power of the divine is 
steeped in faith, the unseen, 
and belief in a power source 
from beyond the Material 
Plane. Clerics are the most 
iconic divine spellcasters, 
beseeching the gods to 


from a different spell list. In these cases, the spell uses 
your magic tradition, not the list the spell normally 
comes from. When you cast a spell, add your tradition’s 


trait to the spell. 


Some types of magic, such as that of most magic 
items, don't belong to any single tradition. These have 
the magical trait instead of a tradition trait. 


Occult 
The practitioners of 
occult traditions seek 
to understand the 
unexplainable, categorize 
the bizarre, and otherwise 
access the ephemeral in 
a systematic way. Bards 


Primal 

An instinctual connection 
to and faith in the world, 
the cycle of day and night, 
the turning of the seasons, 
and the natural selection 
of predator and prey drive 
the primal tradition. Druids 


though it's generally poor 
at affecting the spirit or the 
soul. Wizards are the most 
iconic arcane spellcasters, 
poring over tomes and 
grimoires, though arcane 
sorcerers study the secrets 
of their blood to unlock the 
power within themselves. 


grant them their magic. 
Divine sorcerers can use 
the blood of their celestial 
or fiendish ancestors 

as a divine conduit, and 
champions call upon 

their gods to grant them 
martial prowess through 
divine guidance. 


slot for at the moment you decide to cast it. This provides 
you with more freedom in your spellcasting, but you 
have fewer spells in your spell repertoire, as determined 
by your character level and class. When you make your 
daily preparations, all your spell slots are refreshed, but 
you don't get to change the spells in your repertoire. 


HEIGHTENED SPELLS 


Both prepared and spontaneous spellcasters can cast a 
spell at a higher spell level than that listed for the spell. 
This is called heightening the spell. A prepared spellcaster 
can heighten a spell by preparing it in a higher-level slot 
than its normal spell level, while a spontaneous spellcaster 
can heighten a spell by casting it using a higher-level 
spell slot, so long as they know the spell at that level 
(see Heightened Spontaneous Spells below). When you 
heighten your spell, the spell's level increases to match 
the higher level of the spell slot you've prepared it in or 
used to cast it. This is useful for any spell, because some 
effects, such as counteracting, depend on the spell's level. 

In addition, many spells have additional specific 
benefits when they are heightened, such as increased 
damage. These extra benefits are described at the end 
of the spell’s stat block. Some heightened entries specify 
one or more levels at which the spell must be prepared 
or cast to gain these extra advantages. Each of these 
heightened entries states specifically which aspects of 
the spell change at the given level. Read the heightened 


are the most iconic occult 
spellcasters, collecting 
strange esoterica and 
using their performances 
to influence the mind 

or elevate the soul, and 
occult sorcerers strive to 
understand the mysterious 
power in their blood. 


are the most iconic primal 
spellcasters, calling upon 
the magic of nature through 
deep faith and a connection 
to the plants and animals 
around them, and primal 
sorcerers call upon their fey 
or beast blood to harness 
the same natural energies. 


entry only for the spell level you're using or preparing; 
if its benefits are meant to include any of the effects of 
a lower-level heightened entry, those benefits will be 
included in the entry. 

Other heightened entries give a number after a plus 
sign, indicating that heightening grants extra advantages 
over multiple levels. The listed effect applies for every 
increment of levels by which the spell is heightened above 
its lowest spell level, and the benefit is cumulative. For 
example, fireball says *Heightened (+1) The damage 
increases by 2d6." Because fireball deals 6d6 fire damage 
at 3rd level, a 4th-level fireball would deal 8d6 fire 
damage, a 5th-level spell would deal 10d6 fire damage, 
and so on. 


HEIGHTENED SPONTANEOUS SPELLS 

If you’re a spontaneous spellcaster, you must know a spell 
at the specific level that you want to cast it in order to 
heighten it. You can add a spell to your spell repertoire 
at more than a single level so that you have more options 
when casting it. For example, if you added fireball to your 
repertoire as a 3rd-level spell and again as a Sth-level 
spell, you could cast it as a 3rd-level or a Sth-level spell; 
however, you couldn’t cast it as a 4th-level spell. 

Many spontaneous spellcasting classes provide abilities 
like the signature spells class feature, which allows you 
to cast a limited number of spells as heightened versions 
even if you know the spell at only a single level. 


) INTRODUCTION 


| ANCESTRIES & 
Í BACKGROUNDS 
CLASSES 
! — SKILLS 
* FEMS 


EQUIPMENT 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


DATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


each essence. 


Matter 
Also called body, material 
essence, or physical 
essence, matter is the 
fundamental building 
block that makes up all 
physical things in the 
universe. The arcane 
and primal traditions 
are especially attuned 
toward manipulating and 
shaping matter. Spells 
that are used to create 
or alter matter most 
often come from the 
conjuration, evocation, or 
transmutation schools. 


THE FOUR ESSENCES 


Spells that affect certain physical or metaphysical forces 
tend to be grouped into particular magical traditions. 
Scholars of magic widely agree that all of existence is 
composed of some combination of four essences, though 
they disagree on the names and particular qualities of 


Spirit 
Also called soul, ethereal 
essence, or spiritual 
essence, spirit is an 
otherworldly building block 
that makes up a being's 
immaterial and immortal 
self. The spirit travels 
through the Ethereal Plane 
and into the Great Beyond 
after the death of the 
physical body. The spirit 
is most easily affected by 
divine and occult spells. 
Spirit spells are usually 
of the divination or 
necromancy schools. 


The following entries discuss each essence and the 
traditions and spell schools relevant to it; for instance, 
evocation spells tend to manipulate matter. The abjuration 
school is an unusual case, as abjuration spells draw upon 
different essences depending on who they are warding 
and what they are protecting against. 


Mind 
Also called thought, 
mental, or astral essence, 
mind is what allows 
thinking creatures to have 
rational thoughts, ideas, 


plans, logic, and memories. 


Mind touches even 
nonsapient creatures like 
animals, though in a more 
limited capacity. Arcane 
and occult casters usually 
excel at mind spells. Spells 
that use mind essence 

are usually found in the 
divination, enchantment, 
and illusion schools. 


Life 
Also called heart, faith, 
instinct, or vital essence, 
life represents the 
animating universal force 
within all things. Whereas 
matter provides the base 
materials for a body, life 
keeps it alive and well. This 
essence is responsible for 
unconscious responses and 
belief, such as ancestral 
instincts and divine 
guidance. The divine and 
primal traditions hold 
power over life. Life spells 
are usually necromancy. 


CANTRIPS 
A cantrip is a special type of spell that's weaker than 
other spells but can be used with greater freedom and 
flexibility. The title of a cantrip's stat block says *Cantrip" 
instead of “Spell.” Casting a cantrip doesn’t use up your 
spell slots; you can cast a cantrip at will, any number of 
times per day. If you're a prepared caster, you can prepare 
a specific number of cantrips each day. You can't prepare 
a cantrip in a spell slot. 

A cantrip is always automatically heightened to half 
your level, rounded up. For a typical spellcaster, this means 
its level is equal to the highest level of spell slot you have. 


FOCUS SPELLS 


Focus spells are a special type of spell attained directly from 
a branch of study, from a deity, or from another specific 
source. You can learn focus spells only through special class 
features or feats, rather than choosing them from a spell list. 
Furthermore, you cast focus spells using a special pool of 
Focus Points—you can't prepare a focus spell in a spell slot 
or use your spell slots to cast focus spells; similarly, you can't 
spend your Focus Points to cast spells that aren't focus spells. 
Even some classes that don't normally grant spellcasting, 
such as the champion and monk, can grant focus spells. 
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your 
level rounded up, just like cantrips are. You can't cast a 
focus spell if its minimum level is greater than half your 
level rounded up, even if you somehow gain access to it. 


Casting any of your focus spells costs you 1 Focus Point. 
You automatically gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point the 
first time you gain an ability that gives you a focus spell. 

You replenish all the Focus Points in your pool during 
your daily preparations. You can also use the Refocus 
activity to pray, study, meditate, or otherwise reattune 
yourself to the source of your focus magic and regain a 
Focus Point. 

Some abilities allow you to increase the Focus Points 
in your pool beyond 1. Typically, these are feats that give 
you a new focus spell and increase the number of points 
in your pool by 1. Your focus pool can't have a capacity 
beyond 3 Focus Points, even if feats that increase your pool 
would cause it to exceed this number. 


REFOCUS 
Requirements You have a focus pool, and you have spent at 
least 1 Focus Point since you last regained any Focus Points. 
You spend 10 minutes performing deeds to restore your 
magical connection. This restores 1 Focus Point to your focus 
pool. The deeds you need to perform are specified in the 
class or ability that gives you your focus spells. These deeds 
can usually overlap with other tasks that relate to the source 
of your focus spells. For instance, a cleric with focus spells 
from a good deity can usually Refocus while tending the 
wounds of their allies, and a wizard of the illusionist school 
might be able to Refocus while attempting to Identify Magic 
of the illusion school. 


OTHER SPELL TRAITS 


Some spells and effects have traits such as “mental” or 
“good.” These tell you about the spell, and other rules might 
reference them. A creature might have a -2 circumstance 
penalty to saving throws against mental effects. Below is a 
glossary of a few traits you might see with important rules. 


Auditory 
Auditory spells rely on sound. A spell with the auditory trait 
has its effect only if the target can hear it. This is different 
from a sonic effect, which still affects targets who can't hear 
it (such as deaf targets) as long as the effect makes sound. 


Darkness and Light 

Effects with the darkness and light traits interact in specific 
ways. Non-magical light always shines in non-magical 
darkness and always fails to shine in magical darkness. 
Magical light always shines in non-magical darkness but 
shines in magical darkness only if the light spell has a higher 
level than that of the darkness effect. Spells with the darkness 
trait or the light trait can always counteract one another, but 
bringing light and darkness into contact doesn't automatically 
do so. You must usually cast a light spell on a darkness effect 
directly to counteract it (and vice versa), but some spells 
automatically attempt to counteract opposing effects. 


Incapacitation 

An ability with this trait can take a character out of the 
fight, and it’s harder to use on a more powerful character. 
Creatures of more than twice the spell's level treat the result 
of their check to prevent being incapacitated as one degree 
of success better or the result of any check the spellcaster 
made as one degree of success worse. If any other effect has 
this trait, a creature of higher level than the item, creature, or 
hazard generating the effect gains the same benefits. 


Minion 
Minions are creatures that directly serve another creature. 
A creature with this trait can use only 2 actions per turn, 
doesnt have reactions, and can't act when it's not your 
turn. Your minion acts on your turn in combat, once per 
turn, when you spend an action to issue it commands. 
For an animal companion, you Command an Animal; for a 
minion that's a spell or magic item effect, like a summoned 
minion, you Sustain a Spell or Sustain an Activation; if not 
otherwise specified, you issue a verbal command as a single 
action with the auditory and concentrate traits. If given 
no commands, minions use no actions except to defend 
themselves or to escape obvious harm. If left unattended for 
long enough, typically 1 minute, mindless minions usually 
dont act, animals follow their instincts, and sapient minions 
act how they please. A minion can't control other creatures. 


Morph 
Spells that slightly alter a creature's form have the morph 


trait. Any Strikes specifically granted by a morph effect are 
magical. You can be affected by multiple morph spells at once, 
but if you morph the same body part more than once, the 
second morph effect attempts to counteract the first (in the 
same manner as two polymorph effects, described below). 

Your morph effects might also end if you are polymorphed 
and the polymorph effect invalidates or overrides your morph 
effect. For instance, a morph that gave you wings would be 
dismissed if you polymorphed into a form that had wings of 
its own (though if your new form lacked wings, you'd keep 
the wings from your morph). The GM determines which 
morph effects can be used together and which cant. 


Polymorph 

These effects transform the target into a new form. A target 
cant be under the effect of more than one such effect at a 
time. If it comes under the effect of another, the second effect 
attempts to counteract the first. If it succeeds, it takes effect, 
and if it fails, the spell has no effect on that target. Any Strikes 
specifically granted by a polymorph effect are magical. Unless 
otherwise stated, polymorph spells don't allow the target to 
take on the appearance of a specific individual creature, but 
rather just a generic creature of a general type or ancestry. 

If you take on a battle form with a polymorph spell, the 
special statistics can be adjusted only by circumstance bonuses, 
status bonuses, and penalties. Unless otherwise noted, the 
battle form prevents you from casting spells, speaking, and 
using most manipulate actions that require hands. (If there's 
doubt about whether you can use an action, the GM decides.) 
Your gear is absorbed into you; the constant abilities of your 
gear still function, but you cant activate any items. 


Summoned 

A creature called by a spell or effect gains the summoned trait. 
A summoned creature cant summon other creatures, create 
things of value, or cast spells that require a cost. It has the 
minion trait. If it tries to Cast a Spell of equal or higher level 
than the spell that summoned it, it overpowers the summoning 
magic, causing its own spell to fail and the summon spell to 
end. Otherwise, the summoned creature uses the standard 
abilities for a creature of its kind. It generally attacks your 
enemies to the best of its ability. If you can communicate with 
it, you can attempt to command it, but the GM determines the 
degree to which it follows your commands. 

Immediately when you finish casting, the summoned 
creature uses its 2 actions for that turn. A spawn or other 
creature generated from a summoned creature returns to its 
unaltered state (usually a corpse in the case of spawn) once the 
summoned creature is gone. If it's unclear what this state would 
be, the GM decides. Summoned creatures can be banished by 
various spells and effects. They are automatically banished if 
reduced to O Hit Points or if the spell that called them ends. 

Visual 
A visual spell can affect only creatures that can see it. 


- EQUIPMENT 


^. THE AGE OF 
| LOST OMENS 
[| 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 
rz pe 


CRAFTING 


= 2 DIIS ee e ETS — 
f THFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3j 
I | 


FOCUS POINTS FROM MULTIPLE SOURCES 
It's possible, especially through archetypes, to gain focus 
spells and Focus Points from more than one source. If this 
happens, you have just one focus pool, adding all the Focus 
Points together to determine the total size of your pool. 
(Remember that the maximum number of Focus Points a 
pool can have is 3.) If you have multiple abilities that give 
you a focus pool, each one adds 1 Focus Point to your pool. 
For instance, if you were a cleric with the Domain Initiate 
feat, you would have a pool with 1 Focus Point. Let's say 
you then took the champion multiclass archetype and the 
Healing Touch feat. Normally, this feat would give you a 
focus pool. Since you already have one, it instead increases 
your existing pool's capacity by 1. 

Focus Points are not differentiated by source; you 
can spend any of your Focus Points on any of your 
focus spells. Likewise, when you Refocus, you get 
back a point as long as you follow the guidelines 
of any abilities that granted you focus 
spells. Having Focus Points from multiple 
sources doesnt change the tradition of 
your spells; if you had both cleric domain 
spells and druid order spells, your domain spells 
would remain divine and the order spells primal. This 
could mean that you need to keep track of a different 
proficiency and ability modifier with the spell DC and spell 
attack roll of different focus spells. 


SPELLCASTERS WITH FOCUS SPELLS 


If you are a spellcaster, your focus spells are the same 
tradition of spell as the class that gave you the focus spell. 
A bard's are occult, a cleric’s are divine, a druid’s are primal, 
a wizard’s are arcane, and a sorcerer’s are determined by 
their bloodline. 


NON-SPELLCASTERS WITH FOCUS SPELLS 


If you get focus spells from a class or other source that 
doesn’t grant spellcasting ability (for example, if you’re a 
monk with the Ki Strike feat), the ability that gives you 
focus spells also provides your proficiency rank for spell 
attack rolls and spell DCs, as well as the magical tradition 
of your focus spells. You gain the ability to Cast a Spell and 
use any spellcasting actions necessary to cast your focus 
spells (see below). However, you don’t qualify for feats and 
other rules that require you to be a spellcaster. 


INNATE SPELLS 

Certain spells are natural to your character, typically coming 
from your ancestry or a magic item. You gain the ability to 
Cast a Spell and use any spellcasting actions necessary to 
cast your innate spells; since this magic is innate, you can 
replace any material component with a somatic component 
(page 303). Innate spells don’t let you qualify for abilities 
that require you to be a spellcaster. The ability that gives 


you an innate spell tells you how often you can cast it— 
usually once per day—and its magical tradition. Innate 
spells are refreshed during your daily preparations. Innate 
cantrips are cast at will and automatically heightened as 
normal for cantrips (page 300) unless otherwise specified. 
Yov're always trained in spell attack rolls and spell DCs 
for your innate spells, even if you aren’t otherwise trained 
in spell attack rolls or spell DCs. If your proficiency in 
spell attack rolls or spell DCs is expert or better, apply 
that proficiency to your innate spells, too. You use your 
Charisma modifier as your spellcasting ability modifier for 
innate spells unless otherwise specified. 
If you have an innate spell, you can cast it, even if it’s not 
of a spell level you can normally cast. This is especially 
common for monsters. 
You can’t use your spell slots to cast your innate 
spells, but you might have an innate spell and 
also be able to prepare or cast the same spell 
through your class. You also can’t heighten 
innate spells, but some abilities that 
grant innate spells might give you the 
spell at a higher level than its base level or 
change the level at which you cast the spell. 


CASTING SPELLS 

The casting of a spell can range from a simple word of 
magical might that creates a fleeting effect to a complex 
process taking minutes or hours to cast and producing 
a long-term impact. Casting a Spell is a special activity 
that takes a number of actions defined by the spell. 
When you Cast a Spell, your spellcasting creates obvious 
visual manifestations of the gathering magic, although 
feats such as Conceal Spell (page 210) and Melodious Spell 
(page 101) can help hide such manifestations or otherwise 
prevent observers from noticing that you are casting. 


CAST A SPELL 

You cast a spell you have prepared or in your repertoire. Casting 
a Spell is a special activity that takes a variable number of actions 
depending on the spell, as listed in each spell's stat block. As soon 
as the spellcasting actions are complete, the spell effect occurs. 

Some spells are cast as a reaction or free action. In those 
cases, you Cast the Spell as a reaction or free action (as 
appropriate) instead of as an activity. Such cases will be noted 
in the spell's stat block-for example, “ verbal.” 

Long Casting Times Some spells take minutes or hours to cast. 
The Cast a Spell activity for these spells includes a mix of the 
listed spell components, but it's not necessary to break down 
which one you're providing at a given time. You can't use other 
actions or reactions while casting such a spell, though at the 
GM's discretion, you might be able to speak a few sentences. 
As with other activities that take a long time, these spells have 
the exploration trait, and you can't cast them in an encounter. 
If combat breaks out while you're casting one, your spell is 
disrupted (see Disrupted and Lost Spells on page 303). 


Spell Components Each spell lists the spell components 
required to cast it after the action icons or text, such as «999 
material, somatic, verbal.’ The spell components, described in 
detail below, add traits and requirements to the Cast a Spell 
activity. If you can't provide the components, you fail to Cast 
the Spell. 

e Material (manipulate) 

e Somatic (manipulate) 

e Verbal (concentrate) 

e Focus (manipulate) 

Disrupted and Lost Spells Some abilities and spells can 
disrupt a spell, causing it to have no effect and be lost. When 
you lose a spell, you've already expended the spell slot, spent 
the spell's costs and actions, and used the Cast a Spell activity. 
If a spell is disrupted during a Sustain a Spell action, the spell 
immediately ends. The full rules for disrupting actions appear 
on page 462. 


SPELL COMPONENTS 


A spell description lists the components required to Cast 
the Spell. For most spells, the number of components is 
equal to the number of actions you must spend to Cast 
the Spell. Each component adds certain traits to the 
Cast a Spell activity, and some components have special 
requirements. The components that appear in this book 
are listed below. 


MATERIAL 
A material component is a bit of physical matter 
consumed in the casting of the spell. The spell gains the 
manipulate trait and requires you to have a free hand 
to retrieve and manipulate a material component. That 
component is expended in the casting (even if the spell 
is disrupted). 

Except in extreme circumstances, you can assume 
all common components are included in a material 
component pouch (page 290). 


SOMATIC 
A somatic component is a specific hand movement or 
gesture that generates a magical nexus. The spell gains the 
manipulate trait and requires you to make gestures. You 
can use this component while holding something in 
your hand, but not if you are restrained or otherwise 
unable to gesture freely. 

Spells that require you to touch the target require 
a somatic component. You can do so while holding 
something as long as part of your hand is able to touch 
the target (even if it’s through a glove or gauntlet). 


VERBAL 
A verbal component is a vocalization of words of power. 
You must speak them in a strong voice, so it’s hard to 
conceal that you’re Casting a Spell. The spell gains 
the concentrate trait. You must be able to speak to 
provide this component. 


SPELLS 


TENE as 


COMPONENT SUBSTITUTIONS 
Some classes or abilities can substitute one component 
for another or alter how a component works. 

If you're a bard Casting a Spell from the occult tradition, 
you can usually play an instrument for spells requiring 
somatic or material components, as long as it takes at least 
one of your hands to do so. If you use an instrument, you 
don't need a material component pouch or another hand 
free. You can usually also play an instrument for spells 
requiring verbal components, instead of speaking. 

If you're a cleric Casting a Spell from the divine tradition 
while holding a divine focus (usually a religious symbol or 
text), you can replace any material component the spell 
requires by using the divine focus as a focus component 
instead. Unlike normal for a focus component, you cant 
retrieve or return the focus when making this substitution. 

If you're a druid Casting a Spell from the primal tradition 
while holding a primal focus (such as holly and mistletoe), 
you can replace any material component the spell requires by 
using the primal focus as a focus component instead. Unlike 
the normal rules for a focus component, you can't retrieve or 
put away the focus when making this substitution. 

If you're a sorcerer Casting a Spell from the magical 
tradition that matches your bloodline, you can draw 
on the magic within your blood to replace any material 
component with a somatic component. 

Any character casting an innate spell can replace any 
material component with a somatic component. 


Focus 
A focus is an object that funnels the magical energy of 
the spell. The spell gains the manipulate trait and requires 
you to either have a free hand to retrieve the focus listed 
in the spell or already be holding the focus in your hand. 
As part of Casting the Spell, you retrieve the focus (if 
necessary), manipulate it, and can put it away again if 
you so choose. 

Foci tend to be expensive, and you need to acquire them 
in advance to Cast the Spell. 


| PLAYING THE 
GAME 


mee MPO s ae NÉ z 
DATHFIND CORE RULEBOOK j 
E Lat i Boats itt rr de | 

METAMAGIC 


Many spellcasters can gain access to metamagic 
actions, typically by selecting metamagic feats. Actions 
with the metamagic trait tweak the properties of your 
spells, changing their range, damage, or any number 
of other properties. You must use a metamagic action 
directly before the spell you want to alter. If you use any 
action (including free actions, reactions, and additional 
metamagic actions) other than Cast a Spell directly after, 
you waste the benefits of the metamagic action. Any 
additional effects added by a metamagic action are part 
of the spell's effect, not of the metamagic action itself. 


RANGES, AREAS, AND TARGETS 
Spells with a range can affect targets, create areas, or 
make things appear only within that range. Most spell 
ranges are measured in feet, though some can stretch over 
miles, reach anywhere on the planet, or go even farther! 


TOUCH RANGE 


A spell with a range of touch requires you to physically 
touch the target. You use your unarmed reach to 
determine whether you can touch the creature. You can 
usually touch the target automatically, though the spell 
might specify that the target can attempt a saving throw 
or that you must attempt a spell attack roll. If an ability 
increases the range of a touch spell, start at 0 feet and 
increase from there. 


AREAS 


Sometimes a spell has an area, which can be a burst, 
cone, emanation, or line. The method of measuring these 
areas can be found on page 456. If the spell originates 
from your position, the spell has only an area; if you can 
cause the spell’s area to appear farther away from you, 
the spell has both a range and an area. 


TARGETS 


Some spells allow you to target a creature, an object, or 
something that fits a more specific category. The target must 
be within the spell’s range, and you must be able to see it 
(or otherwise perceive it with a precise sense) to target it 
normally. At the GM’s discretion, you can attempt to target 
a creature you can’t see, as described in Detecting Creatures 
on pages 465—467. If you fail to target a particular creature, 
this doesn’t change how the spell affects any other targets 
the spell has. 

If you choose a target that isn’t valid, such as if you 
thought a vampire was a living creature and targeted it 
with a spell that can target only living creatures, your 
spell fails to target that creature. If a creature starts out 
as a valid target but ceases to be one during a spell’s 
duration, the spell typically ends, but the GM might 
decide otherwise in certain situations. 


Spells that affect multiple creatures in an area can have 
both an Area entry and a Targets entry. A spell that has 
an area but no targets listed usually affects all creatures 
in the area indiscriminately. 

Some spells restrict you to willing targets. A player 
can declare their character a willing or unwilling target 
at any time, regardless of turn order or their character’s 
condition (such as when a character is paralyzed, 
unconscious, or even dead). 


LINE OF EFFECT 


You usually need an unobstructed path to the target of a 
spell, the origin point of an area, or the place where you 
create something with a spell. More information on line 
of effect can be found on page 457. 


DURATIONS 


The duration of a spell is how long the spell effect lasts. 
Spells that last for more than an instant have a Duration 
entry. A spell might last until the start or end of a turn, for 
some number of rounds, for minutes, or even longer. If a 
spell’s duration is given in rounds, the number of rounds 
remaining decreases by 1 at the start of each of the 
spellcaster’s turns, ending when the duration reaches 0. 

Some spells have effects that remain even after the 
spell’s magic is gone. Any ongoing effect that isn’t part 
of the spell’s duration entry isn’t considered magical. 
For instance, a spell that creates a loud sound and has 
no duration might deafen someone for a time, even 
permanently. This deafness couldn’t be counteracted 
because it is not itself magical (though it might be cured 
by other magic, such as restore senses). 

If a spell’s caster dies or is incapacitated during the spell’s 
duration, the spell remains in effect till its duration ends. 
You might need to keep track of the caster’s initiative after 
they stopped being able to act to monitor spell durations. 


SUSTAINING SPELLS 


If the spell’s duration is “sustained,” it lasts until the end 
of your next turn unless you use a Sustain a Spell action 
on that turn to extend the duration of that spell. 


SUSTAIN A SPELL 9 
Requirements You have at least one spell active with a 
sustained duration, and you are not fatigued. 
Choose one spell with a sustained duration you have in effect. 
The duration of that spell continues until the end of your next 
turn. Some spells might have slightly different or expanded 
effects if you sustain them. Sustaining a Spell for more than 10 
minutes (100 rounds) ends the spell and makes you fatigued 
unless the spell lists a different maximum duration (such as 
“sustained up to 1 minute” or “sustained up to 1 hour’). 
If your Sustain a Spell action is disrupted, the spell 
immediately ends. 


LONG DURATIONS 


If a spell’s duration says it lasts until your next daily 
preparations, on the next day you can refrain from 
preparing a new spell in that spell’s slot. (If you are 
a spontaneous caster, you can instead expend a spell 
slot during your preparations.) Doing so extends the 
spell’s duration until your next daily preparations. This 
effectively Sustains the Spell over a long period of time. 
If you prepare a new spell in the slot (or don’t expend 
a spell slot), the spell ends. You can’t do this if the spell 

didn’t come from one of your spell slots. If you are dead 
or otherwise incapacitated at the 24-hour mark after the 
time you Cast the Spell or the last time you extended 
its duration, the spell ends. Spells with an unlimited 
duration last until counteracted or Dismissed. You 
don’t need to keep a spell slot open for these spells. 


DISMISSING 


Some spells can be dismissed, ending the duration early. 
This requires the caster or target to use the Dismiss action. 


DISMISS 9 

You end one spell effect or magic item effect. This must be 
an effect you are allowed to dismiss, as defined by the spell 
or item. Dismissal might end the effect entirely or might end 
it just for a certain target or targets, depending on the spell 
or item. 


SAVING THROWS 

Spells that require a target to attempt a save to resist some 
or all of the spell's effects have a Saving Throw entry. This 
entry presents the type of save for quick reference, and 
specific details appear in the spell description. Whenever 
a spell allows a saving throw, it uses the caster's spell DC. 


BASIC SAVING THROWS 


If a spell’s Saving Throw entry specifies a “basic” saving 
throw, the spell’s potential effects all relate to the damage 
listed in the spell’s description. The target takes no damage 
on a critical success, half damage on a success, full 
damage on a failure, or double damage on a critical failure. 
The rules for basic saving throws are found on page 449. 


SPELL ATTACKS 

Some spells require you to succeed at a spell attack roll 
to affect the target. This is usually because they require 
you to precisely aim a ray or otherwise make an accurate 
attack. A spell attack roll is compared to the target’s AC. 
Spell attack rolls benefit from any bonuses or penalties to 
attack rolls, including your multiple attack penalty, but not 
any special benefits or penalties that apply only to weapon 
or unarmed attacks. Spell attacks don’t deal any damage 
beyond what’s listed in the spell description. 


In rare cases, a spell might have you make some other 
type of attack, such as a weapon Strike. Such attacks use 
the normal rules and attack bonus for that type of attack. 


IDENTIFYING SPELLS 
Sometimes you need to identify a spell, especially if its 
effects are not obvious right away. If you notice a spell 
being cast, and you have prepared that spell or have it 
in your repertoire, you automatically know what the 
spell is, including the level to which it is heightened. 
If you want to identify a spell but don’t have it 
prepared or in your repertoire, you must spend an 
action on your turn to attempt to identify it using 
Recall Knowledge. You typically notice a spell being 
cast by seeing its visual manifestations or hearing its 
verbal casting components. Identifying long-lasting 
spells that are already in place requires using Identify 
Magic instead of Recall Knowledge because you don’t 
have the advantage of watching the spell being cast. 


COUNTERACTING 
Some spells, such as dispel magic, can be used to eliminate 
the effects of other spells. At least one creature, object, or 
manifestation of the spell you are trying to counteract must 
be within range of the spell that you are using. You attempt 
a counteract check (page 458) using your spellcasting ability 
modifier and your proficiency bonus for spell attack rolls. 


HOSTILE ACTIONS 

Sometimes spells prevent a target from using hostile actions, 
or the spell ends if a creature uses any hostile actions. A 
hostile action is one that can harm or damage another 
creature, whether directly or indirectly, but not one that a 
creature is unaware could cause harm. For instance, casting 
fireball into a crowd would be a hostile action, but opening 
a door and accidentally freeing a horrible monster wouldn’t 
be. The GM is the final arbitrator of what is a hostile action. 


SETTING TRIGGERS 

If a spell is meant to respond only to certain events or 
under certain conditions—such as magic mouth—it might 
require you to set a trigger. This is a simple sensory cue 
that causes the spell to activate. The spell activates as a 
reaction when the spell’s sensor observes something that 
fits its trigger. Depending on the spell, the trigger might 
be the presence of a type of creature, such as “red-haired 
dwarven women,” or it could be an observed action, such 
as “whenever someone enters the spell’s area.” 

Disguises and illusions fool the spell as long as they 
appear to match its parameters. For a spell to detect 
something visually, the spell’s origin point must have line 
of sight. Darkness doesn’t prevent this, but invisibility 


PELLS 


li ee 


5 


LDATHFINDER) cone Rurenoor fA ) 


7 RN : 


does, as does a successful Stealth check to Hide (against 
the spell's DC). For auditory detection, line of sight isn't 
necessary, though the sound must be audible at the spell's 
origin point. A Stealth check to Sneak can fool the sensor. 


WALLS 

Spells that create walls list the depth, length, and height of 
the wall, also specifying how it can be positioned. Some 
walls can be shaped; you can manipulate the wall into a 
form other than a straight line, choosing its contiguous path 
square by square. The path of a shaped wall can't enter the 
same space more than once, but it can double back so one 
section is adjacent to another section of the wall. 


READING SPELLS 

Each spell uses the following format. Entries appear only 
when applicable, so not all spells will have every entry 
described here. The spell's name line also lists the type of 
spell if it's a cantrip or focus spell, as well as the level. 


SPELL NAME SPELL (LEVEL) 

Tradition This entry lists the magical traditions the spell 
belongs to. Some feats or other abilities might add a spell to 
your spell list even if you don't follow the listed traditions. 


Cast The number of actions required to Cast the Spell are listed 
here. Spells that can be cast during a single turn have the 
appropriate icon, as do those that can be cast as a free action 
or a reaction. Spells that take longer to cast list the time 
required, such as “1 minute.” After this, the spell's components 
are listed. If Casting the Spell has a cost, requirements, or a 
trigger, that information is also listed in this section. A cost 
includes any money, valuable materials, or other resources 
that must be expended to cast the spell. 

Range, Area, and Targets This entry lists the range of the spell, 
the area it affects, and the targets it can affect, if any. If none 
of these entries are present, the spell affects only the caster. 

Saving Throw and Duration If a spell allows the target to attempt 
a saving throw, the type of save appears here. Any details on 
the particular results and timing of the save appear in the text 
unless the entry specifies a basic saving throw, which follows 
the rules found on page 449. If the spell requires a save only 
under certain circumstances or at a certain time, this entry 
is omitted, since the text needs to explain it in more detail. A 
spell that doesn't list a duration takes place instantaneously, 
and anything created by it persists after the spell. 

A horizontal line follows saving throws and duration, and the 

effects of the spell are described after this line. This section 

might also detail the possible results of a saving throw: critical 
success, success, failure, and critical failure. 

Heightened (level) If the spell has special effects when 

heightened, those effects appear at the end of the stat block. 


SPELL LISTS 


These lists include the spells for each 
tradition, including cantrips. (Focus 
spells appear on pages 386-407.) 
A superscript “H” indicates a spell 
has extra effects when heightened, 
and a spell whose rarity is greater 
than common has a superscript 
with the first letter of that rarity. An 
abbreviation in parentheses indicates 
a spell's school. 


ARCANE SPELLS 


Arcane DANTRIPS 

Acid Splash" (evo): Damage creatures 
with acid. 

Chill Touch" (nec): Your touch hurts the 
living or disorients undead. 

Dancing Lights (evo): Create four 
floating lights you can move. 

Daze" (enc): Damage a creature's mind 
and possibly stun it. 

Detect Magic" (div): Sense whether 
magic is nearby. 

Electric Arc" (evo): Zap one or two 
creatures with lightning. 

Ghost Sound" (ill): Make false sounds. 

Light" (evo): Make an object glow. 

Mage Hand" (evo): Command a floating 
hand to move an object. 

Message" (ill): Speak a message to a 
distant creature, who can reply. 

Prestidigitation (evo): Perform a minor 
magical trick. 

Produce Flame" (evo): Kindle small 
flames to attack close or at range. 
Ray of Frost" (evo): Damage a creature 

with cold. 

Read Aura" (div): Detect if an object is 
magical, and determine the school of 
its magic. 

Shield" (abj): A shield of magical force 
blocks attacks and magic missiles. 

Sigil" (tra): Leave a magical mark. 

Tanglefoot" (con): Conjure a vine to 
entangle a creature. 

Telekinetic Projectile" (evo): Fling an 
object at a creature. 


Arcane Ist-Levet SPELLS 

Air Bubble (con): React to create air for 
a creature to breathe. 

Alarm# (abj): Be alerted if a creature 
enters a warded area. 

Ant Haul (tra): Target can carry more. 

Burning Hands" (evo): A small cone of 
flame rushes from your hands. 

Charm" (enc): A creature becomes more 
friendly to you. 

Color Spray (ill): Swirling colors dazzle 
or stun creatures. 

Command" (enc): Bid a creature to 
approach, run, release something, lie 
prone, or stand up. 


Create Water (con): Conjure 2 gallons 
of water. 

Fear" (enc): Frighten a creature, 
possibly making it flee. 

Feather Fall (abj): React to slow a 
creature's fall. 

Fleet Step (tra): Make your Speed much 
faster. 

Floating Disk (con): A disk of energy 
follows you, carrying objects. 

Goblin Pox (nec): Infect a creature with 
goblin pox. 

Grease (con): Coat a surface or object in 
slippery grease. 

Grim Tendrils" (nec): Creatures in a line 
take negative damage and bleed. 

Gust of Wind (evo): Wind blows out 
fires and knocks back objects and 
creatures. 

Hydraulic Push" (evo): Damage and 
push a creature with a blast of water. 

Illusory Disguise" (ill): Make yourself 
look like a different creature. 

Illusory Object" (ill): Form a convincing 
illusion of an object. 

Item Facade" (ill): Disguise an item to 
look perfect or shoddy. 

Jump" (tra): Make an impressive leap. 

Lock" (abj): Make a lock hard to open. 

Longstrider" (tra): Increase your Speed 
for an hour. 

Mage Armor" (abj): Ward yourself with 
magical armor. 

Magic Aura" " (ill): Change how an 
item's magic appears to detecting 
spells. 

Magic Missile" (evo): Pelt creatures 
with unerring bolts of magical force. 

Magic Weapon (tra): Make a weapon 
temporarily magical. 

Mending" (tra): Repair one non-magical 
item. 

Negate Aroma" (abj): Suppress a 
creature's scent. 

Pest Form" (tra): Turn into a 
nonthreatening animal. 

Ray of Enfeeblement (nec): Sap a 
creature's strength. 

Shocking Grasp" (evo): Zap a creature 
with electricity. 

Sleep" (enc): Cause creatures in a small 
area to fall asleep. 

Spider Sting (nec): Damage a creature 
and afflict it with spider venom. 

Summon Animal" (con): Conjure an 
animal to fight on your behalf. 

Summon Construct" (con): Conjure a 
construct to fight on your behalf. 

True Strike (div): Make your next 
attack especially accurate. 

Unseen Servant (con): Create an 
invisible creature to help you. 

Ventriloquism" (ill): Throw your voice. 


Arcane @ND-LEVEL SPELLS 
Acid Arrow" (evo): Magical arrow deals 
acid damage persistently. 


Blur (ill): Cause a target's form to 
become blurry and hard to hit. 

Comprehend Language" (div): A 
creature understands one language. 

Continual Flame" (evo): A magical 
flame burns indefinitely. 

Create Food" (con): Conjure food that 
can feed multiple creatures. 

Darkness" (evo): Suppress all light in 
an area. 

Darkvision" (div): See in the dark. 

Deafness (nec): Make a creature deaf. 

Dispel Magic (abj): End a spell or 
suppress an item's magic. 

Endure Elements" (abj): Protect a 
creature from severe cold or heat. 
Enlarge" (tra): A creature grows in size. 

False Life" (nec): Gain temporary HP. SPELLS 
Flaming Sphere" (evo): A ball of fire = 
rolls about at your command. NOD 
Gentle Repose" (nec): A corpse doesn't HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


EQUIPMENT 


decay and can't become undead. 

Glitterdust (evo): Sparkling dust breaks 
invisibility and impedes vision. | 

Hideous Laughter (enc): Fits of laughter | PLAYING THE 
make a creature unable to take all its —. BAME 
actions. " ii 

Humanoid Form" (tra): Take the shape . F 
of a humanoid. . GAME 

Illusory Creature" (ill): Form a MA 
convincing illusion of a creature. 

Invisibility" (ill): A creature can't be 
seen until it attacks. 

Knock (tra): Make a door, lock, or 
container easier to open, and 
possibly open it immediately. 

Magic Mouth (ill): Make an illusory 
mouth appear to speak a message. 
Mirror Image (ill): Illusory duplicates of 

you cause attacks to miss. 

Misdirection (ill): Cause one creature's 
auras to appear to be another's. 

Obscuring Mist (con): Conceal creatures 
in a cloud of mist. 

Phantom Steed" (con): Conjure a 
magical horse. 

Resist Energy" (abj): Protect a creature 
from one type of energy damage. 

See Invisibility" (div): See invisible 
creatures and objects. 

Shrink" (tra): Reduce a willing creature 
to Tiny size. 

Spectral Hand (nec): Semicorporeal 
hand touches creatures to target 
them with your spells. 

Spider Climb" (tra): Give a creature a 
climb Speed. 

Summon Elemental" (con): Conjure an 
elemental to fight on your behalf. 

Telekinetic Maneuver (evo): 

Disarm, Shove, or Trip a creature 
telekinetically. 

Touch of Idiocy (enc): Dull a target's 
mind with a touch. 

Water Breathing" (tra): Allow creatures 
to breathe underwater. 


Water Walk# (tra): Buoy a creature so 
it can walk on water. 

Web" (con): Form a web that keeps 
creatures from moving. 


Arcane 3ro-LeveL SPELLS 

Bind Undead (nec): Take control of a 
mindless undead. 

Blindness (nec): Strike a target blind. 

Clairaudience (div): Hear through an 
invisible magical sensor. 

Dream Message" (enc): Send a message 
that arrives in a dream. 

Earthbind (tra): Bring a flying creature 
to the ground. 

Enthrall (enc): Your speech makes 
creatures fascinated with you. 

Feet to Fins" (tra): Turn a creature's 
feet into fins, enabling it swim but 
slowing it on land. 

Fireball” (evo): An explosion of fire in 
an area burns creatures. 

Ghostly Weapon (tra): Make a weapon 
affect incorporeal creatures. 

Glyph of Warding (abj): Store a spell in 
a symbol to make a trap. 

Haste" (tra): Speed up a creature so it 
can attack or move more often. 

Hypnotic Pattern (ill): Shifting colors 
dazzle and fascinate creatures. 

Invisibility Sphere" (ill): You and 
creatures near you become invisible 
as you explore. 

Levitate (evo): Float an object or 
creature a few feet off the ground. 
Lightning Bolt” (evo): Lightning strikes 

all creatures in a line. 

Locate"'" (div): Learn the direction to 
an object. 

Meld into Stone (tra): Meld into a block 
of stone. 

Mind Reading" (div): Read a creature's 
surface thoughts. 

Nondetection" (abj): Protect a creature 
or object from detection. 

Paralyze" (enc): Freeze a creature in 
place. 

Secret Page (ill): Alter the appearance 
of a page. 

Shrink Item (tra): Reduce an object to 
the size of a coin. 

Slow" (tra): Make a creature slower, 
reducing its actions. 

Stinking Cloud (con): Form a cloud that 
sickens creatures. 

Vampiric Touch" (nec): Deal negative 
damage and gain temporary HP with 
a touch. 

Wall of Wind (evo): Create a wall 
of gusting winds that hinders 
movement and ranged attacks. 


Arcane Hru-LeveL SPELLS 

Aerial Form" (tra): Turn into a flying 
combatant. 

Blink" (con): Flit between the planes, 
vanishing and reappearing. 


inde sm (UIN er ces ET = 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 42 
<> oa ee ae Eo ell 


Clairvoyance (div): See through an 
invisible magical sensor. 

Confusion" (enc): Befuddle a creature, 
making it act randomly. 

Creation" (con): Make a temporary 
object. 

Detect Scrying"." (div): Find out if 
scrying effects are in the area. 

Dimension Door" (con): Teleport 
yourself up to 120 feet. 

Dimensional Anchor (abj): Keep a 
creature from teleporting or traveling 
to other planes. 

Discern Lies" (div): Expertly detect lies 
and falsehoods. 

Fire Shield" (evo): Flames protect you 
from cold and harm those that touch 
you. 

Fly" (tra): Cause the target creature to 
gain a fly Speed. 

Freedom of Movement (abj): A creature 
overcomes hindrances to its 
movement. 

Gaseous Form (tra): Turn a willing 
creature into a flying cloud. 

Globe of Invulnerability" (abj): Magical 
sphere counteracts spells that would 
enter it. 

Hallucinatory Terrain" (ill): A natural 
environment appears to be another 
kind of terrain. 

Nightmare (ill): Plague a creature's 
dreams with disturbing nightmares. 

Outcast's Curse (enc): Curse a creature 
to be off-putting and grating. 

Phantasmal Killer" (ill): Place a 
fearsome image in a creature's mind 
to scare and possibly kill it. 

Private Sanctum" (abj): Black fog 
prevents sensing, scrying, and 
mind-reading on anyone within. 

Resilient Sphere (abj): Create a sphere 
of force that blocks anything that 
would come through. 

Rope Trick" (con): Animate a rope that 
rises to an extradimensional hiding 
place. 

Shape Stone (tra): Reshape a cube of 
stone. 

Solid Fog (con): Conjure heavy fog that 
obscures sight and is hard to move 
through. 

Spell Immunity (abj): Name a spell to 
negate its effects on you. 

Stoneskin" (abj): Harden a creature's 
skin into durable stone. 

Suggestion" (enc): Suggest a course of 
action a creature must follow. 

Telepathy" (div): Communicate 
telepathically with any creatures 
near you. 

Veil" (ill); Disguise many creatures as 
other creatures. 

Wall of Fire" (evo): Create a blazing 
wall that burns creatures that pass 
through. 


Weapon Storm" (evo): Multiply a 
weapon you hold and attack many 
creatures with it. 


Arcane StH-LEveL SPELLS 

Banishment" (abj): Send a creature 
back to its home plane. 

Black Tentacles (con): Tentacles in an 
area grab creatures. 

Chromatic Wall" (abj): A wall of light 
offers a unique protection based on 
its color. 

Cloak of Colors (ill): Bright colors 
dazzle creatures near the target, 
and attacks cause blinding flashes 
of light. 

Cloudkill" (nec): Poison creatures in a 
cloud that moves away from you. 

Cone of Cold" (evo): Bitter cold 
damages creatures in a cone. 

Control Water (evo): Raise or lower 
water in a large area. 

Crushing Despair" (enc): Make a 
creature sob uncontrollably. 

Drop Dead" (ill): The target appears to 
die but actually turns invisible. 

Elemental Form" (tra): Turn into an 
elemental. 

False Vision" (ill): Trick a scrying spell. 

Hallucination" (ill): A creature believes 
one thing is another, can't detect 
something, or sees something that's 
not really there. 

Illusory Scene" (ill): Create an 
imaginary scene containing multiple 
creatures and objects. 

Mariner's Curse (nec): Infect a creature 
with the curse of the rolling sea. 

Mind Probe" (div): Uncover knowledge 
and memories in a creature's mind. 

Passwall":4 (con): Form an earthen 
tunnel through a wall. 

Prying Eye (div): An invisible eye 
transmits what it sees to you. 

Sending (div): Send a mental message 
to a creature anywhere on the planet 
and get a reply. 

Shadow Siphon (ill): React to lessen 
the damage from an enemy's spell by 
making it partially illusion. 

Shadow Walk" (con): Travel rapidly via 
the Shadow Plane. 

Subconscious Suggestion" (enc): Plant 
a mental suggestion that must be 
followed when a trigger occurs. 

Summon Dragon" (con): Conjure a 
dragon to fight on your behalf. 

Telekinetic Haul (evo): Move a large object. 

Telepathic Bond! (div): Link minds with 
willing creatures to communicate 
telepathically at great distances. 

Tongues "" (div): Let a creature 
understand and speak all languages. 

Wall of Ice" (evo): Sculpt a foot-thick 
wall of ice that blocks sight and can 
chill creatures. 

Wall of Stone" (con): Shape a wall of stone. 


Arcane GTH-LeveL SPELLS 

Baleful Polymorph (tra): Transform a 
creature into a harmless animal. 

Chain Lightning" (evo): Lightning jumps 
from creature to creature. 

Collective Transposition" (con): 
Teleport up to two creatures to new 
positions near you. 

Disintegrate" (evo): Reduce a creature 
or object to dust. 

Dominate":# (enc): A creature must 
obey your orders. 

Dragon Form" (tra): Turn into a dragon. 

Feeblemind (enc): Stupefy a creature 
permanently. 

Flesh To Stone (tra): Turn a living 
creature to a stone statue. 

Mislead (ill): Turn invisible and create 
a duplicate of yourself who acts like 
you. 

Phantasmal Calamity" (ill): Damage a 
creature mentally with visions of an 
apocalypse. 

Purple Worm Sting (nec): Damage a 
creature and infect it with purple 
worm venom. 

Repulsion (abj): Prevent creatures from 
approaching you. 

Scrying" (div): Spy on a creature. 

Spellwrack (abj): Curse a creature to be 
harmed when a spell is cast on it and 
lower the duration of its spells. 

Teleport":# (con): Transport you and 
willing creatures a great distance. 

True Seeing (div): See through illusions 
and transmutations. 

Vampiric Exsanguination" (nec): Draw 
blood and life force from creatures 
in a cone. 

Vibrant Pattern (ill): Make a pattern of 
lights that dazzles and blinds. 

Wall of Force" (evo): Create an invisible 
and durable wall of magical force. 


Arcane 7TH-LEVEL SPELLS 

Contingency" (abj): Set up a spell to 
trigger later under your choice of 
circumstances. 

Dimensional Lock" (abj): Prevent 
teleportation and planar travel. 

Duplicate Foe" (con): Create a 
temporary duplicate of an enemy 
that fights for you. 

Eclipse Burst" (nec): A globe of 
darkness deals cold damage, hurts 
the living, and overcomes light. 

Energy Aegis" (abj): A creature gains 
resistance to acid, cold, electricity, 
fire, force, and sonic. 

Fiery Body" (tra): Turn your body into 
living flame. 

Magnificent Mansion" (con): Conjure a 
secure dwelling in a demiplane. 

Mask of Terror" (ill): A creature's 
fearsome illusory appearance 
frightens observers. 


Plane Shift" (con): Transport creatures 
to another plane of existence. 

Power Word Blind":" (enc): Utter a 
word that blinds a creature. 

Prismatic Spray (evo): Shoot rainbow 
beams that have various effects on 
creatures in a cone. 

Project Image" (ill): Make an illusion 
of yourself you can cast spells through. 

Reverse Gravity" (evo): Flip the 
gravitational pull in an area. 

Spell Turning" (abj): Reflect spells back 
at their caster. 

True Target (div): Make multiple 
attacks against a creature especially 
accurate. 

Warp Mind (enc): Confuse a creature, 
possibly permanently. 


Arcane 8tH-LeveL SPELLS 

Antimagic Field" (abj): Magic doesn't 
function in an area around you. 

Disappearance (ill): Make a creature 
invisible, silent, and undetectable by 
any and all senses. 

Discern Location" (div): Discover 
a target's exact location within 
unlimited range. 

Dream Council (ill): Communicate 
through a shared dream. 

Earthquake" (evo): Shake the ground 
with a devastating earthquake. 

Horrid Wilting" (nec): Pull moisture 
from creatures, damaging them. 

Maze (con): Trap a creature in an 
extradimensional maze. 

Mind Blank" (abj): Protect a creature 
from mental magic and some 
divinations. 

Monstrosity Form" (tra): Turn into a 
powerful monster. 

Polar Ray" (evo): Bitter cold damages 
and drains a creature. 

Power Word Stun":4 (enc): Utter a word 
that stuns a creature. 

Prismatic Wall (abj): Form a protective 
wall with seven chromatic layers. 

Scintillating Pattern (ill): Cause an 
array of color that dazzles, confuses, 
and stuns. 

Uncontrollable Dance (enc): Overcome 
a target with an all-consuming urge 
to dance. 

Unrelenting Observation (div): You and 
other creatures use scrying to track 
a subject exactly. 


Arcane Sru-LeveL SPELLS 

Disjunction" (abj): Deactivate or 
destroy a magic item. 

Foresight (div): Sense when a creature 
is in danger and react to protect it 
with good fortune. 

Implosion" (evo): Make a creature 
collapse in on itself. 

Massacre" (nec): Instantly kill multiple 
creatures. 


Meteor Swarm" (evo): Call down four 
blazing meteors that explode. 

Power Word Kill" (enc): Utter a word 
that slays a creature. 

Prismatic Sphere (abj): Form a 
protective sphere composed of seven 
chromatic layers. 

Resplendent Mansion (con): Conjure a 
mansion that lasts for a day. 

Shapechange (tra): Transform into a 
form of your choice repeatedly. 

Telepathic Demand (enc): Send a 
mental message that impels a 
creature toward a course of action. 

Weird (ill): Frighten, deal mental 
damage, and possibly kill large 
numbers of creatures. 


Arcane 10TH-LeveL SPELLS 

Cataclysm (evo): Call an instant, 
damaging cataclysm. 

Gate" (con): Tear open a portal to 
another plane. 

Remake" (con): Recreate a destroyed object. 

Time Stop (tra): Briefly stop time for 
everything but you. 

Wish (div): Make a wish to duplicate 
arcane spells. 


DIVINE SPELLS 


Divine CANTRIPS 

Chill Touch" (nec): Your touch hurts the 
living or disorients undead. 

Daze" (enc): Damage a creature's mind 
and possibly stun it. 

Detect Magic" (div): Sense whether 
magic is nearby. 

Disrupt Undead" (nec): Damage undead 
with positive energy. 

Divine Lance" (evo): Throw divine 
energy that damages based on your 
deity's alignment. 

Forbidding Ward" (abj): Protect an ally 
against one specific enemy. 

Guidance (div): Divine guidance 
improves one roll. 

Know Direction" (div): Find true north. 

Light" (evo): Make an object glow. 

Message" (ill): Speak a message to a 
distant creature, who can reply. 

Prestidigitation (evo): Perform a minor 
magical trick. 

Read Aura" (div): Detect if an object is 
magical, and determine the school of 
its magic. 

Shield" (abj): A shield of magical force 
blocks attacks and magic missiles. 

Sigil" (tra): Leave a magical mark. 

Stabilize (nec): Stabilize a dying 
creature. 


Divine Ist-LeveL SPELLS 

Air Bubble (con): React to create air for 
a creature to breathe. 

Alarm# (abj): Be alerted if a creature 
enters a warded area. 


EQUIPMENT 
oo” 2,0. 
SPELLS 
OF 
HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


PT 


GAME 


Bane (enc): Weaken enemies’ attacks in 
an aura around you. 

Bless (enc): Strengthen allies’ attacks in 
an aura around you. 

Command" (enc): Bid a creature to 
approach, run, release something, lie 
prone, or stand up. 

Create Water (con): Conjure 2 gallons 
of water. 

Detect Alignment"'" (div): See auras of 
a chosen alignment. 

Detect Poison"'" (div): Determine 
whether an object or creature is 
poisonous or venomous. 

Disrupting Weapons" (nec): Weapons 
deal positive damage to undead. 

Fear" (enc): Frighten a creature, 
possibly making it flee. 

Harm" (nec): Negative energy harms 
the living or heals the undead, either 
a single creature or all in a burst. 

Heal" (nec): Positive energy heals the 
living or harms the undead, either a 
single creature or all in a burst. 

Lock" (abj): Make a lock hard to open. 

Magic Weapon (tra): Make a weapon 
temporarily magical. 

Mending" (tra): Repair one non-magical 
item. 

Protection" (abj): Shield a creature 
against those of a chosen alignment. 

Purify Food And Drink (nec): Make 
beverages and meals safe. 

Ray of Enfeeblement (nec): Sap a 
creature's strength. 

Sanctuary (abj): Protect a creature from 
being attacked. 

Spirit Link" (nec): Continually transfer 
your health to someone else. 

Ventriloquism" (ill): Throw your voice. 


Divine @no-LeveL SPELLS 

Augury (div): Predict whether a course 
of action brings good fortune. 

Calm Emotions (enc): Suppress strong 
emotions and hostility. 

Comprehend Language" (div): A 
creature understands one language. 

Continual Flame" (evo): A magical 
flame burns indefinitely. 

Create Food" (con): Conjure food that 
can feed multiple creatures. 

Darkness" (evo): Suppress all light in 
an area. 

Darkvision" (div): See in the dark. 

Deafness (nec): Make a creature deaf. 

Death Knell (nec): Finish off a creature 
who's near death. 

Dispel Magic (abj): End a spell or 
suppress an item's magic. 
Endure Elements" (abj): Protect a 
creature from severe cold or heat. 
Enhance Victuals" (tra): Improve food 
or drink and remove poisons. 

Faerie Fire (evo): Colorful light prevents 
creatures from being concealed or 
invisible. 


Da sm (UIN er ces ET = 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 42 
<> Sa oS alll 


Gentle Repose" (nec): A corpse doesn't 
decay and can't become undead. 

Ghoulish Cravings (nec): Infect a 
creature with ghoul fever. 

Remove Fear" (enc): Free a creature 
from its fright. 

Remove Paralysis" (nec): Free a 
creature from paralysis. 
Resist Energy" (abj): Protect a creature 
from one type of energy damage. 
Restoration" (nec): Reduce a condition 
or lessen a toxin. 

Restore Senses" (nec): Remove a 
blinding or deafening effect. 

See Invisibility" (div): See invisible 
creatures and objects. 

Shield Other (nec): Absorb half the 
damage an ally would take. 

Silence" (ill): Mute all sound from a 
creature. 

Sound Burst" (evo): Damage and 


deafen creatures with a powerful din. 


Spiritual Weapon" (evo): Materialize a 
deific weapon of force that appears 
and attacks repeatedly. 

Status" (div): Keep track of a willing 
creature's location and well-being. 
Undetectable Alignment" (abj): Make a 
creature or object appear neutral to 

alignment detection. 

Water Breathing" (tra): Allow creatures 
to breathe underwater. 

Water Walk" (tra): Buoy a creature so 
it can walk on water. 


Divine 3ro-LeveL SPELLS 

Bind Undead (nec): Take control of a 
mindless undead. 

Blindness (nec): Strike a target blind. 

Chilling Darkness" (evo): Ray of 
evil darkness deals cold damage, 
counteracts light, and harms 
celestials. 

Circle of Protection"? (abj): A creature 
emits an aura that protects those 
within against an alignment. 

Crisis of Faith" (enc): Cause mental 
damage and possibly make a 
worshipper unable to cast spells. 

Dream Message" (enc): Send a message 
that arrives in a dream. 

Glyph of Warding (abj): Store a spell in 
a symbol to make a trap. 

Heroism" (enc): Stoke a creature's 
inner heroism to make it more 
competent. 

Locate": (div): Learn the direction to 
an object. 

Neutralize Poison (nec): Cure a poison 
afflicting a creature. 

Remove Disease (nec): Cure a disease 
afflicting a creature. 

Sanctified Ground (abj): Create a 
24-hour area of protection against 
aberrations, celestials, dragons, 
fiends, or undead. 

Searing Light" (evo): A ray of burning 


light deals extra damage to undead 
and counteracts darkness. 

Vampiric Touch" (nec): Deal negative 
damage and gain temporary HP with 
a touch. 

Wanderer's Guide (div): Find an ideal 
route to a location. 

Zone of Truth" (enc): Compel creatures 
to tell the truth. 


Divine Hru- Leve. SPELLS 

Air Walk (tra): Walk on air as though it 
were solid ground. 

Anathematic Reprisal" (enc): Cause 
mental pain to one who commits 
anathema against your deity. 

Dimensional Anchor (abj): Keep a 
creature from teleporting or traveling 
to other planes. 

Discern Lies" (div): Expertly detect lies 
and falsehoods. 

Divine Wrath" (evo): Damage and 
hinder creatures of alignments 
opposed by your deity. 

Freedom of Movement (abj): A creature 
overcomes hindrances to its 
movement. 

Globe of Invulnerability" (abj): Magical 
sphere counteracts spells that would 
enter it. 

Holy Cascade" (evo): Turn a vial of holy 
water into an explosion of blessed 
water. 

Outcast's Curse (enc): Curse a creature 
to be off-putting and grating. 

Read Omens" (div): Get a piece of 
advice about an upcoming event. 

Remove Curse (nec): Counteract a curse 
afflicting a creature. 

Spell Immunity (abj): Name a spell to 
negate its effects on you. 

Talking Corpse" (nec): Have a corpse 
answer three questions. 

Vital Beacon" (nec): Radiate vitality 
that heals creatures that touch you. 


Divine Bru- Leve. SPELLS 

Abyssal Plague (nec): Inflict a draining 
curse. 

Banishment" (abj): Send a creature 
back to its home plane. 

Breath of Life (nec): React to revive a 
creature at the moment of its death. 

Death Ward (abj): Protect a creature 
against negative energy. 

Drop Dead" (ill): The target appears to 
die but actually turns invisible. 

Flame Strike" (evo): Call divine fire 
from the sky. 

Prying Eye (div): An invisible eye 
transmits what it sees to you. 

Sending (div): Send a mental message 
to a creature anywhere on the planet 
and get a reply. 

Shadow Blast" (evo): Shape a cone of 
shadow to deal damage of a type you 
choose. 


Spiritual Guardian" (abj): Create a 
magical guardian to attack at your 
command and take damage for your 
allies. 

Summon Celestial" (con): Conjure a 
celestial to fight on your behalf. 

Summon Fiend} (con): Conjure a fiend 
to fight on your behalf. 

Tongues™" (div): Let a creature 
understand and speak all languages. 


Divine GTH-LEVEL SPELLS 

Blade Barrier" (evo): Form a wall of 
swords made of force. 

Field of Life" (nec): Create a positive 
energy field that heals those within. 

Raise Dead":4 (nec): Return a dead 
creature to life. 

Repulsion (abj): Prevent creatures from 
approaching you. 

Righteous Might" (tra): Turn into a 
battle form with divine armaments. 
Spellwrack (abj): Curse a creature to be 
harmed when a spell is cast on it and 

lower the duration of its spells. 

Spirit Blast" (nec): Damage a creature's 
spiritual essence. 

Stone Tell" (div): Speak to spirits within 
natural stone. 

Stone to Flesh (tra): Turn a creature 
turned to stone back to flesh. 

True Seeing (div): See through illusions 
and transmutations. 

Vampiric Exsanguination" (nec): Draw 
blood and life force from creatures 
in a cone. 

Zealous Conviction" (enc): Instill 
unshakable conviction and zeal in 
willing creatures. 


Divine 7TH-LeveL SPELLS 

Dimensional Lock" (abj): Prevent 
teleportation and planar travel. 

Divine Decree" (evo): Creatures of 
alignments opposed by your deity 
are damaged, enfeebled, paralyzed, 
or banished. 

Divine Vessel" (tra): Take on aspects of 
a servitor of your deity. 

Eclipse Burst" (nec): A globe of 
darkness deals cold damage, hurts 
the living, and overcomes light. 

Energy Aegis" (abj): A creature gains 
resistance to acid, cold, electricity, 
fire, force, and sonic. 

Ethereal Jaunt":# (con): Use the 
Ethereal Plane to move through 
objects and into the air. 

Finger of Death" (nec): Point at a 
creature to deal negative damage 
and possibly kill it instantly. 

Plane Shift" (con): Transport creatures 
to another plane of existence. 

Regenerate" (nec): Cause a creature to 
heal over time, regrow organs, and 
reattach body parts. 

Sunburst" (evo): A globe of sunlight 


deals fire damage, hurts undead, and 
overcomes darkness. 


Divine 8TH-LevEL SPELLS 

Antimagic Field" (abj): Magic doesn't 
function in an area around you. 

Discern Location" (div): Discover 
a target's exact location within 
unlimited range. 

Divine Aura (abj): Allies in an aura have 
better defenses and are protected 
against one alignment. 

Divine Inspiration (enc): Spiritual 
energy recovers a creature's 
expended spell. 

Moment of Renewal (nec): Give a day's 
recovery in an instant. 

Spiritual Epidemic (nec): Weaken a 
target with a communicable curse. 


Divine STH-LeveL SPELLS 

Bind Soul" (nec): Imprison a dead 
creature's soul. 

Crusade". (enc): Creatures become 
dedicated to a cause of your choice. 

Foresight (div): Sense when a creature 
is in danger and react to protect it 
with good fortune. 

Massacre" (nec): Instantly kill multiple 
creatures. 

Overwhelming Presence (enc): Take on 
the majesty of a god. 

Telepathic Demand (enc): Send a 
mental message that impels a 
creature toward a course of action. 

Wail of the Banshee (nec): Scream, 
dealing damage and draining 
creatures. 

Weapon of Judgment" (evo): Form a 
weapon to enforce war or peace. 


Divine 10TH-Levet BreLLs 

Avatar (tra): Transform into a battle 
form determined by your deity. 

Gate" (con): Tear open a portal to 
another plane. 

Miracle (div): Ask for a blessing to 
duplicate divine spells. 

Remake" (con): Recreate a destroyed 
object. 

Revival (nec): Heal creatures in an 
area and return the dead to life 
temporarily. 


OCCULT SPELLS 


Üccu.r CANTRIPS 

Chill Touch" (nec): Your touch hurts the 
living or disorients undead. 

Dancing Lights (evo): Create four 
floating lights you can move. 

Daze" (enc): Damage a creature's mind 
and possibly stun it. 

Detect Magic" (div): Sense whether 
magic is nearby. 

Forbidding Ward" (abj): Protect an ally 
against one specific enemy. 

Ghost Sound" (ill): Make false sounds. 


Guidance (div): Divine guidance 
improves one roll. 

Know Direction" (div): Find true north. 

Light" (evo): Make an object glow. 

Mage Hand" (evo): Command a floating 
hand to move an object. 

Message" (ill): Speak a message to a 
distant creature, who can reply. 

Prestidigitation (evo): Perform a minor 
magical trick. 

Read Aura" (div): Detect if an object is 
magical, and determine the school of 
its magic. 

Shield" (abj): A shield of magical force 
blocks attacks and magic missiles. 

Sigil" (tra): Leave a magical mark. 

Telekinetic Projectile" (evo): Fling an 
object at a creature. 


ccu. lst-LeveL SPELLS 

Alarm" (abj): Be alerted if a creature 
enters a warded area. 

Bane (enc): Weaken enemies' attacks in 
an aura around you. 

Bless (enc): Strengthen allies' attacks in 
an aura around you. 

Charm" (enc): A creature becomes more 
friendly to you. 

Color Spray (ill): Swirling colors dazzle 
or stun creatures. 

Command" (enc): Bid a creature to 
approach, run, release something, lie 
prone, or stand up. 

Detect Alignment"'" (div): See auras of 
a chosen alignment. 

Fear" (enc): Frighten a creature, 
possibly making it flee. 

Floating Disk (con): A disk of energy 
follows you, carrying objects. 

Grim Tendrils" (nec): Creatures in a line 
take negative damage and bleed. 

Illusory Disguise" (ill): Make yourself 
look like a different creature. 

Illusory Object" (ill): Form a convincing 
illusion of an object. 

Item Facade" (ill): Disguise an item to 
look perfect or shoddy. 

Lock" (abj): Make a lock hard to open. 

Mage Armor" (abj): Ward yourself with 
magical armor. 

Magic Aura" (ill): Change how an 
item's magic appears to detecting 
spells. 

Magic Missile" (evo): Pelt creatures 
with unerring bolts of magical force. 

Magic Weapon (tra): Make a weapon 
temporarily magical. 

Mending? (tra): Repair one non-magical 
item. 

Mindlink (div): Mentally impart 10 minutes' 
worth of information in an instant. 

Phantom Pain" (ill): Cause a creature 
ongoing pain that sickens it. 

Protection" (abj): Shield a creature 
against those of a chosen alignment. 

Ray of Enfeeblement (nec): Sap a 
creature's strength. 


EQUIPMENT 
—Ó 2,0. 
| SPELLS 
NOD 
HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


Pv 


Sanctuary (abj): Protect a creature from 
being attacked. 

Sleep" (enc): Cause creatures in a small 
area to fall asleep. 

Soothe! (nec): Heal the target and 
bolster them against mental attacks. 

Spirit Link" (nec): Continually transfer 
your health to someone else. 

Summon Fey" (con): Conjure a fey to 
fight on your behalf. 

True Strike (div): Make your next 
attack especially accurate. 

Unseen Servant (con): Create an 
invisible creature to help you. 

Ventriloquism" (ill): Throw your voice. 


Üccu.r @no-Levet SPELLS 

Augury (div): Predict whether a course 
of action brings good fortune. 

Blur (ill): Cause a target's form to 
become blurry and hard to hit. 

Calm Emotions (enc): Suppress strong 
emotions and hostility. 

Comprehend Language" (div): A 
creature understands one language. 

Continual Flame" (evo): A magical 
flame burns indefinitely. 

Darkness" (evo): Suppress all light in 
an area. 

Darkvision (div): See in the dark. 

Deafness (nec): Make a creature deaf. 

Death Knell (nec): Finish off a creature 
who's near death. 

Dispel Magic (abj): End a spell or 
suppress an item's magic. 

Faerie Fire (evo): Colorful light prevents 
creatures from being concealed or 
invisible. 

False Life" (nec): Gain temporary HP. 

Gentle Repose" (nec): A corpse doesn't 
decay and can't become undead. 

Ghoulish Cravings (nec): Infect a 
creature with ghoul fever. 

Hideous Laughter (enc): Fits of laughter 
make a creature unable to take all its 
actions. 

Humanoid Form" (tra): Take the shape 
of a humanoid. 

Illusory Creature" (ill): Form a 
convincing illusion of a creature. 

Invisibility" (ill): A creature can't be 
seen until it attacks. 

Knock (tra): Make a door, lock, or 
container easier to open, and 
possibly open it immediately. 

Magic Mouth (ill): Make an illusory 
mouth appear to speak a message. 
Mirror Image (ill): Illusory duplicates of 

you cause attacks to miss. 

Misdirection (ill): Cause one creature's 
auras to appear to be another’s. 

Paranoia" (ill): Make a creature believe 
everyone is a threat. 

Phantom Steed" (con): Conjure a 
magical horse. 

Remove Fear" (enc): Free a creature 
from its fright. 


ieee ne mco | 


E 


ine iim (DIM e e T = 
SATHF CORE RULEBOOK ¢ 
t a ad » me EE ed d 


Remove Paralysis" (nec): Free a 
creature from paralysis. 

Resist Energy" (abj): Protect a creature 
from one type of energy damage. 
Restoration" (nec): Reduce a condition 

or lessen a toxin. 

Restore Senses" (nec): Remove a 
blinding or deafening effect. 

See Invisibility" (div): See invisible 
creatures and objects. 

Shatter" (evo): Shatter an object with a 
high-frequency sonic attack. 

Silence" (ill): Mute all sound from a 
creature. 

Sound Burst" (evo): Damage and 
deafen creatures with a powerful din. 

Spectral Hand (nec): Create a semicorporeal 
hand that touches creatures to target 
them with your spells. 

Spiritual Weapon" (evo): Materialize a 
deific weapon of force that appears 
and attacks repeatedly. 

Status" (div): Keep track of a willing 
creature's location and well-being. 

Telekinetic Maneuver (evo): 

Disarm, Shove, or Trip a creature 
telekinetically. 

Touch of Idiocy (enc): Dull a target's 
mind with a touch. 

Undetectable Alignment” (abj): Make a 
creature or object appear neutral to 
alignment detection. 


Occut 3ro-LeveL SPELLS 
Bind Undead (nec): Take control of a 
mindless undead. 

Blindness (nec): Strike a target blind. 
Circle of Protection”:" (abj): A creature 
emits an aura that protects those 

within against an alignment. 

Clairaudience (div): Hear through an 
invisible magical sensor. 

Dream Message" (enc): Send a message 
that arrives in a dream. 

Enthrall (enc): Your speech makes 
creatures fascinated with you. 

Ghostly Weapon (tra): Make a weapon 
affect incorporeal creatures. 

Glyph of Warding (abj): Store a spell in 
a symbol to make a trap. 

Haste" (tra): Speed up a creature so it 
can attack or move more often. 

Heroism" (enc): Stoke a creature's inner 
heroism to make it more competent. 

Hypercognition (div): Recall massive 
amounts of information in an instant. 

Hypnotic Pattern (ill): Shifting colors 
dazzle and fascinate creatures. 

Invisibility Sphere" (ill): You and 
creatures near you become invisible 
as you explore. 

Levitate (evo): Float an object or 
creature a few feet off the ground. 

Locate": (div): Learn the direction to 
an object. 

Mind Reading" (div): Read a creature's 
surface thoughts. 


Nondetection" (abj): Protect a creature 
or object from detection. 

Paralyze" (enc): Freeze a creature in 
place. 

Secret Page (ill): Alter the appearance 
of a page. 

Slow" (tra): Make a creature slower, 
reducing its actions. 

Vampiric Touch" (nec): Deal negative 
damage and gain temporary HP with 
a touch. 

Wanderer's Guide (div): Find an ideal 
route to a location. 

Zone of Truth" (enc): Designate an area 
where creatures are compelled to be 
truthful. 


Üccu.r Hru-LeveL SPELLS 

Blink" (con): Flit between the planes, 
vanishing and reappearing. 

Clairvoyance (div): See through an 
invisible magical sensor. 

Confusion" (enc): Befuddle a creature, 
making it act randomly. 

Detect Scrying"'" (div): Find out if 
scrying effects are in the area. 

Dimension Door" (con): Teleport 
yourself up to 120 feet. 

Dimensional Anchor (abj): Keep a 
creature from teleporting or traveling 
to other planes. 

Discern Lies" (div): Expertly detect lies 
and falsehoods. 

Fly" (tra): Cause the target creature to 
gain a fly Speed. 

Gaseous Form (tra): Turn a willing 
creature into a flying cloud. 

Glibness" (enc): Lie with impunity. 

Globe of Invulnerability" (abj): Magical 
sphere counteracts spells that would 
enter it. 

Hallucinatory Terrain"'" (ill): A natural 
environment appears to be another 
kind of terrain. 

Modify Memory":" (div): Change or 
implant memories. 

Nightmare (ill): Plague a creature's 
dreams with disturbing nightmares. 

Outcast's Curse (enc): Curse a creature 
to be off-putting and grating. 

Phantasmal Killer" (ill): Place a 
fearsome image in a creature’s mind 
to scare and possibly kill it. 

Private Sanctum" (abj): Black fog 
prevents sensing, scrying, and 
mind-reading on anyone within. 

Read Omens" (div): Get a piece of 
advice about an upcoming event. 

Remove Curse (nec): Counteract a curse 
afflicting a creature. 

Resilient Sphere (abj): Create a sphere of 
force that blocks anything that would 
come through. 

Rope Trick" (con): Animate a rope that rises 
to an extradimensional hiding place. 

Spell Immunity (abj): Name a spell to 
negate its effects on you. 


Suggestion" (enc): Suggest a course of 
action a creature must follow. 

Talking Corpse" (nec): Have a corpse 
answer three questions. 

Telepathy" (div): Communicate 
telepathically with any creatures 
near you. 

Veil" (ill): Disguise many creatures as 
other creatures. 


üccu.r Srh-LeveL SpeLLS 

Abyssal Plague (nec): Inflict a draining 
curse. 

Banishment" (abj): Send a creature 
back to its home plane. 

Black Tentacles (con): Tentacles in an 
area grab creatures. 

Chromatic Wall" (abj): A wall of light 
offers a unique protection based on 
its color. 

Cloak of Colors (ill): Bright colors 
dazzle creatures near the target, 
and attacks cause blinding flashes 
of light. 

Crushing Despair" (enc): Make a 
creature sob uncontrollably. 

Death Ward (abj): Protect a creature 
against negative energy. 

Dreaming Potential (enc): The target 
retrains in its dreams. 

False Vision" (ill): Trick a scrying spell. 

Hallucination" (ill): A creature believes 
one thing is another, can't detect 
something, or sees something that's 
not really there. 

Illusory Scene" (ill): Create an 
imaginary scene containing multiple 
creatures and objects. 

Mariner's Curse (nec): Infect a creature 
with the curse of the rolling sea. 

Mind Probe" (div): Uncover knowledge 
and memories in a creature's mind. 

Prying Eye (div): An invisible eye 
transmits what it sees to you. 

Sending (div): Send a mental message 
to a creature anywhere on the planet 
and get a reply. 

Shadow Blast" (evo): Shape a cone of 
shadow to deal damage of a type you 
choose. 

Shadow Siphon (ill): React to lessen 
the damage from an enemy's spell by 
making it partially illusion. 

Shadow Walk" (con): Travel rapidly via 
the Shadow Plane. 

Subconscious Suggestion" (enc): Plant 
a mental suggestion that must be 
followed when a trigger occurs. 

Summon Entity" (con): Conjure an 
aberration to fight on your behalf. 

Synaptic Pulse (enc): Slow creatures 
with a mental blast. 

Synesthesia" (div): Rewire a creature's 
senses. 

Telekinetic Haul (evo): Move a large 
object. 

Telepathic Bond" (div): Link minds with 


willing creatures to communicate 

telepathically at great distances. 
Tongues"'" (div): Let a creature 

understand and speak all languages. 


Üccu.r Bru-LeveL SPELLS 

Collective Transposition" (con): 
Teleport up to two creatures to new 
positions near you. 

Dominate"-4 (enc): A creature must 
obey your orders. 

Feeblemind (enc): Stupefy a creature 
permanently. 

Mislead (ill): Turn invisible and create 
a duplicate of yourself who acts like 
you. 

Phantasmal Calamity" (ill): Damage a 
creature mentally with visions of an 
apocalypse. 

Repulsion (abj): Prevent creatures from 
approaching you. 

Scrying" (div): Spy on a creature. 

Spellwrack (abj): Curse a creature to be 
harmed when a spell is cast on it and 
lower the duration of its spells. 

Spirit Blast" (nec): Damage a creature's 
spiritual essence. 

Teleport" (con): Transport you and 
willing creatures a great distance. 
True Seeing (div): See through illusions 

and transmutations. 

Vampiric Exsanguination" (nec): Draw 
blood and life force from creatures 
in a cone. 

Vibrant Pattern (ill): Make a pattern of 
lights that dazzles and blinds. 

Wall of Force" (evo): Create an invisible 
and durable wall of magical force. 

Zealous Conviction" (enc): Instill 
unshakable conviction and zeal in 
willing creatures. 


Üccu.r 7TH-LEVEL SPELLS 

Dimensional Lock" (abj): Prevent 
teleportation and planar travel. 

Duplicate Foe" (con): Create a 
temporary duplicate of an enemy 
that fights for you. 

Energy Aegis" (abj): A creature gains 
resistance to acid, cold, electricity, 
fire, force, and sonic. 

Ethereal Jaunt":# (con): Use the 
Ethereal Plane to move through 
objects and into the air. 

Magnificent Mansion" (con): Conjure a 
secure dwelling in a demiplane. 

Mask of Terror" (ill): A creature's 
fearsome illusory appearance 
frightens observers. 

Plane Shift" (con): Transport creatures 
to another plane of existence. 

Possession":# (nec): Send your mind 
and soul into another creature's 
body. 

Prismatic Spray (evo): Shoot rainbow 
beams that have various effects on 
creatures in a cone. 


Project Image" (ill): Make an illusion of 
yourself you can cast spells through. 

Retrocognition" (div): Sense 
impressions of past events at your 
location. 

Reverse Gravity" (evo): Flip the 
gravitational pull in an area. 

True Target (div): Make multiple 
attacks against a creature especially 
accurate. 

Visions of Danger" (ill): Create a vision 
of horrid, swarming creatures that 
causes mental damage. 

Warp Mind (enc): Confuse a creature, 
possibly permanently. 


Üccu.r 8ru-LeveL SPELLS 

Antimagic Field" (abj): Magic doesn't 
function in an area around you. 

Disappearance (ill): Make a creature 
invisible, silent, and undetectable by 
any and all senses. 

Discern Location" (div): Discover 
a target's exact location within 
unlimited range. | 

Dream Council (ill): Communicate | PLAYING THE 
through a shared dream. -— GAME 

Maze (con): Trap a creature in an ‘eal 
extradimensional maze. t . GAME 

- MASTERING 


EQUIPMENT 
— GK 
SPELLS 
(oO 
HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


Mind Blank" (abj): Protect a creature 
from mental magic and some 
divinations. 

Prismatic Wall (abj): Form a protective 
wall with seven chromatic layers. 

Scintillating Pattern (ill): Cause an 
array of color that dazzles, confuses, 
and stuns. 

Spirit Song" (nec): Sing an eldritch song 
that damages any creature that has 
a spirit. 

Spiritual Epidemic (nec): Weaken a 
target with a communicable curse. 
Uncontrollable Dance (enc): Overcome 
a target with an all-consuming urge 

to dance. 

Unrelenting Observation (div): You and 
other creatures use scrying to track 
a subject exactly. 


Üccu.r StH-Leve SPELLS 

Bind Soul" (nec): Imprison a dead 
creature's soul. 

Foresight (div): Sense when a creature 
is in danger and react to protect it 
with good fortune. 

Overwhelming Presence (enc): Take on 
the majesty of a god. 

Prismatic Sphere (abj): Form a 
protective sphere composed of seven 
chromatic layers. 

Resplendent Mansion (con): Conjure a 
mansion that lasts for a day. 

Telepathic Demand (enc): Send a 
mental message that impels a 
creature toward a course of action. 

Unfathomable Song (enc): Song 
debilitates creatures in weird ways. 


Wail of the Banshee (nec): Scream, dealing 
damage and draining creatures. 

Weird (ill): Frighten, deal mental 
damage, and possibly kill large 
numbers of creatures. 


Occurt 10tH-Levet SPELLS 

Alter Reality (div): Warp reality to 
duplicate occult spells. 

Fabricated Truth (enc): Make creatures 
believe something is fact. 

Gate" (con): Tear open a portal to 
another plane. 

Remake" (con): Recreate a destroyed 
object. 

Time Stop (tra): Briefly stop time for 
everything but you. 


PRIMAL SPELLS 


PniMAL DANTRIPS 

Acid Splash" (evo): Damage creatures 
with acid. 

Dancing Lights (evo): Create four 
floating lights you can move. 

Detect Magic" (div): Sense whether 
magic is nearby. 

Disrupt Undead" (nec): Damage undead 
with positive energy. 

Electric Arc" (evo): Zap one or two 
creatures with lightning. 

Guidance (div): Divine guidance 
improves one roll. 

Know Direction" (div): Find true north. 

Light" (evo): Make an object glow. 

Prestidigitation (evo): Perform a minor 
magical trick. 

Produce Flame" (evo): Kindle small 
flames to attack close or at range. 
Ray of Frost" (evo): Damage a creature 

with cold. 

Read Aura" (div): Detect if an object is 
magical, and determine the school of 
its magic. 

Sigil" (tra): Leave a magical mark. 

Stabilize (nec): Stabilize a dying 
creature. 

Tanglefoot" (con): Conjure a vine to 
entangle a creature. 


Prima lsr-LeveL SPELLS 

Air Bubble (con): React to create air for 
a creature to breathe. 

Alarm# (abj): Be alerted if a creature 
enters a warded area. 

Ant Haul (tra): Target can carry more. 

Burning Hands# (evo): A small cone of 
flame rushes from your hands. 

Charm" (enc): A creature becomes more 
friendly to you. 

Create Water (con): Conjure 2 gallons 
of water. 

Detect Poison":4 (div): Determine 
whether an object or creature is 
poisonous or venomous. 

Fear" (enc): Frighten a creature, 
possibly making it flee. 


SAREE a 


E 


— vany (DEE ae ye i" 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK j 
A ———— " —— SEG m E e d | 


Feather Fall (abj): React to slow a 
creature's fall. 

Fleet Step (tra): Make your Speed much 
faster. 

Goblin Pox (nec): Infect a creature with 
goblin pox. 

Grease (con): Coat a surface or object in 
slippery grease. 

Gust of Wind (evo): Wind blows out 
fires and knocks back objects and 
creatures. 

Heal" (nec): Positive energy heals the 
living or harms the undead, either a 
single creature or all in a burst. 

Hydraulic Push" (evo): Damage and 
push a creature with a blast of water. 

Jump" (tra): Make an impressive leap. 

Longstrider" (tra): Increase your Speed 
for an hour. 

Magic Fang (tra): Make a creature's 
unarmed attacks magical 
temporarily. 

Mending" (tra): Repair one non-magical 
item. 

Negate Aroma" (abj): Suppress a 
creature's scent. 

Pass without Trace" (abj): Make your 
tracks hard to find. 

Pest Form" (tra): Turn into a 
nonthreatening animal. 

Purify Food And Drink (nec): Make 
beverages and meals safe. 

Shillelagh (tra): Make a club or staff 
temporarily magical, and deal more 
damage to unnatural creatures. 

Shocking Grasp" (evo): Zap a creature 
with electricity. 

Spider Sting (nec): Damage a creature 
and afflict it with spider venom. 

Summon Animal" (con): Conjure an 
animal to fight on your behalf. 

Summon Fey" (con): Conjure a fey to 
fight on your behalf. 

Summon Plant or Fungus" (con): 
Conjure a plant or fungus to fight on 
your behalf. 

Ventriloquism" (ill): Throw your voice. 


Primal BNn-LeveL SPELLS 

Acid Arrow" (evo): Magical arrow deals 
acid damage persistently. 

Animal Form" (tra): Turn into a 
dangerous animal. 

Animal Messenger (enc): Send a Tiny 
animal to deliver a message. 

Barkskin" (abj): Target's skin is covered 
in protective bark. 

Continual Flame" (evo): A magical 
flame burns indefinitely. 

Create Food" (con): Conjure food that 
can feed multiple creatures. 

Darkness" (evo): Suppress all light in 
an area. 

Darkvision" (div): See in the dark. 

Deafness (nec): Make a creature deaf. 

Dispel Magic (abj): End a spell or 
suppress an item's magic. 


Endure Elements" (abj): Protect a 
creature from severe cold or heat. 

Enhance Victuals" (tra): Improve food 
or drink and remove poisons. 

Enlarge" (tra): A creature grows in size. 

Entangle (tra): Plants in an area grow 
to entangle and immobilize. 

Faerie Fire (evo): Colorful light prevents 
creatures from being concealed or 
invisible. 

Flaming Sphere" (evo): A ball of fire 
rolls about at your command. 

Gentle Repose" (nec): A corpse doesn't 
decay and can't become undead. 

Glitterdust (evo): Sparkling dust breaks 
invisibility and impedes vision. 

Humanoid Form" (tra): Take the shape 
of a humanoid. 

Obscuring Mist (con): Conceal creatures 
in a cloud of mist. 

Phantom Steed" (con): Conjure a 
magical horse. 

Remove Fear" (enc): Free a creature 
from its fright. 

Remove Paralysis" (nec): Free a 
creature from paralysis. 

Resist Energy" (abj): Protect a creature 
from one type of energy damage. 

Restoration" (nec): Reduce a condition 
or lessen a toxin. 

Restore Senses" (nec): Remove a 
blinding or deafening effect. 

Shape Wood (tra): Reshape unworked 
wood as you choose. 

Shatter" (evo): Shatter an object with a 
high-frequency sonic attack. 

Shrink" (tra): Reduce a willing creature 
to Tiny size. 

Speak with Animals (div): Communicate 
with animals. 

Spider Climb" (tra): Give a creature a 
climb Speed. 

Status" (div): Keep track of a willing 
creature's location and well-being. 

Summon Elemental" (con): Conjure an 
elemental to fight on your behalf. 

Tree Shape (tra): Turn into a tree. 

Water Breathing" (tra): Allow creatures 
to breathe underwater. 

Water Walk" (tra): Buoy a creature so 
it can walk on water. 

Web" (con): Form a web that keeps 
creatures from moving. 


Prima 3ro-LeveL SPELLS 

Animal Vision (div): Project your 
senses through an animal. 

Blindness (nec): Strike a target blind. 

Earthbind (tra): Bring a flying creature 
to the ground. 

Feet to Fins" (tra): Turn a creature's 
feet into fins, enabling it swim but 
slowing it on land. 

Fireball” (evo): An explosion of fire in 
an area burns creatures. 

Glyph of Warding (abj): Store a spell in 
a symbol to make a trap. 


Haste" (tra): Speed up a creature so it 
can attack or move more often. 

Insect Form" (tra): Turn into a 
dangerous giant insect. 

Lightning Bolt" (evo): Lightning strikes 
all creatures in a line. 

Meld into Stone (tra): Meld into a block 
of stone. 

Neutralize Poison (nec): Cure a poison 
afflicting a creature. 

Nondetection" (abj): Protect a creature 
or object from detection. 

Remove Disease (nec): Cure a disease 
afflicting a creature. 

Searing Light" (evo): A ray of burning 
light deals extra damage to undead 
and counteracts darkness. 

Slow" (tra): Make a creature slower, 
reducing its actions. 

Stinking Cloud (con): Form a cloud that 
sickens creatures. 

Wall of Thorns" (con): Grow a wall of 
brambles. 

Wall of Wind (evo): Create a wall 
of gusting winds that hinders 
movement and ranged attacks. 


Primal Hru-LeveL SPELLS 

Aerial Form# (tra): Turn into a flying 
combatant. 

Air Walk (tra): Walk on air as though it 
were solid ground. 

Creation" (con): Make a temporary 
object. 

Dinosaur Form" (tra): Turn into a 
dinosaur. 

Fire Shield" (evo): Flames protect you 
from cold and harm those that touch 
you. 

Fly" (tra): Cause the target creature to 
gain a fly Speed. 

Freedom of Movement (abj): A creature 
overcomes hindrances to its 
movement. 

Gaseous Form (tra): Turn a willing 
creature into a flying cloud. 

Hallucinatory Terrain" (ill): A natural 
environment appears to be another 
kind of terrain. 

Hydraulic Torrent" (evo): Force 
creatures back with a damaging line 
of water. 

Shape Stone (tra): Reshape a cube of 
stone. 

Solid Fog (con): Conjure heavy fog that 
obscures sight and is hard to move 
through. 

Speak with Plants (div): Communicate 
with plants and plant creatures. 

Stoneskin" (abj): Harden a creature's 
skin into durable stone. 

Vital Beacon" (nec): Radiate vitality 
that heals creatures that touch you. 

Wall of Fire" (evo): Create a blazing 
wall that burns creatures that pass 
through. 

Weapon Storm" (evo): Multiply a 


weapon you hold and attack many 
creatures with it. 


Primal Bru-LeveL SPELLS 

Banishment" (abj): Send a creature 
back to its home plane. 

Cloudkill" (nec): Poison creatures in a 
cloud that moves away from you. 

Cone of Cold" (evo): Bitter cold 
damages creatures in a cone. 

Control Water (evo): Raise or lower 
water in a large area. 

Death Ward (abj): Protect a creature 
against negative energy. 

Elemental Form" (tra): Turn into an 
elemental. 

Mariner's Curse (nec): Infect a creature 
with the curse of the rolling sea. 

Moon Frenzy" (tra): Give willing 
creatures fangs and claws, and send 
them into a frenzy. 

Passwall":4 (con): Form an earthen 
tunnel through a wall. 

Plant Form" (tra): Turn into a 
dangerous plant creature. 

Summon Giant" (con): Conjure a giant 
to fight on your behalf. 

Tree Stride” (con): Teleport from tree 
to tree. 

Wall of Ice" (evo): Sculpt a foot-thick 
wall of ice that blocks sight and can 
chill creatures. 

Wall of Stone" (con): Shape a wall of stone. 


PriMAL GTH-LEVEL SPELLS 

Baleful Polymorph (tra): Transform a 
creature into a harmless animal. 

Chain Lightning" (evo): Lightning jumps 
from creature to creature. 

Dragon Form! (tra): Turn into a dragon. 

Field of Life" (nec): Create a positive 
energy field that heals those within. 

Fire Seeds" (evo): Make four explosive 
acorns. 

Flesh To Stone (tra): Turn a living 
creature to a stone statue. 

Purple Worm Sting (nec): Damage a 
creature and infect it with purple 
worm venom. 

Stone Tell" (div): Speak to spirits within 
natural stone. 

Stone to Flesh (tra): Turn a creature 
turned to stone back to flesh. 

Tangling Creepers (con): Entangle 
creatures in a burst and concentrate 
to lash out with immobilizing vines. 

True Seeing (div): See through illusions 
and transmutations. 


PRiMAL 7TH-LEVvEL SPELLS 

Eclipse Burst" (nec): A globe of 
darkness deals cold damage, hurts 
the living, and overcomes light. 

Energy Aegis" (abj): A creature gains 
resistance to acid, cold, electricity, 
fire, force, and sonic. 

Fiery Body" (tra): Turn your body into 
living flame. 


Finger of Death" (nec): Point at a 
creature to deal negative damage 
and possibly kill it instantly. 

Mask of Terror" (ill): A creature's 
fearsome illusory appearance 
frightens observers. 

Plane Shift" (con): Transport creatures 
to another plane of existence. 

Regenerate" (nec): Cause a creature to 
heal over time, regrow organs, and 
reattach body parts. 

Sunburst" (evo): A globe of sunlight 
deals fire damage, hurts undead, and 
overcomes darkness. 

Unfettered Pack" (abj): Let creatures 
avoid environmental hindrances. 

Volcanic Eruption" (evo): Cause 
massive lava sprays that burn 
creatures and encase them in rock. 


Primal 8TH-LEvEL SPELLS " 

Earthquake" (evo): Shake the ground 
with a devastating earthquake. 

Horrid Wilting" (nec): Pull moisture 
from creatures, damaging them. | 

Moment of Renewal (nec): Give a days | PLAYING THE 
recovery in an instant. ot GAME 

Monstrosity Form" (tra): Turn into a eal! 
powerful monster. 

Polar Ray" (evo): Bitter cold damages 
and drains a creature. 

Punishing Winds (evo): A cyclone 
inhibits flight and traps creatures. 

Wind Walk (tra): Turn creatures into 
swift-moving clouds. 


Primal STH-LEVEL SPELLS 

Disjunction" (abj): Deactivate or 
destroy a magic item. 

Implosion" (evo): Make a creature 
collapse in on itself. 

Massacre" (nec): Instantly kill multiple 
creatures. 

Meteor Swarm" (evo): Call down four 
blazing meteors that explode. 

Nature's Enmity (enc): Turn animals, 
plants, and weather against 
creatures of your choice. 

Shapechange (tra): Transform into a 
form of your choice repeatedly. 

Storm of Vengeance" (evo): Create a 
massive, dangerous storm. 


Primar 1O0TH-LeveL SPELLS 

Cataclysm (evo): Call an instant, 
damaging cataclysm. 

Nature Incarnate (tra): Turn into a 
massive avatar of nature. 

Primal Herd (tra): Transform willing 
creatures into mammoths. 

Primal Phenomenon (div): Request for 
nature to duplicate primal spells. 

Remake! (con): Recreate a destroyed 
object. 

Revival (nec): Heal creatures in an 
area and return the dead to life 
temporarily. 


EQUIPMENT 
a e A 

SPELLS 
cl 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PT 


GAME 


CORE RULEBOOK 4 
IEEE LE ll 


SPELL DESCRIPTIONS 


ABYSSAL PLAGUE 

[cone [uses] em. [conver] 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

Your touch afflicts the target with Abyssal plague, which 

siphons fragments of their soul away to empower the Abyss. 

The effect is based on the target's Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes 2 evil damage per spell level, and 
takes a -2 status penalty to saves against Abyssal plague for 
1 day or until the target contracts it, whichever comes first. 

Failure The target is afflicted with Abyssal plague at stage 1. 

Critical Failure The target is afflicted with Abyssal plague at 
stage 2. 

Abyssal Plague (disease) Level 9; The target can't recover from 
the drained condition from Abyssal plague until the disease 
is cured; Stage 1 drained 1 (1 day); Stage 2 drained increases 
by 2 (1 day) 


ACID ARROW 

ACID | attack | Evocation | 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 
You conjure an arrow of acid that keeps corroding the target after 
it hits. Make a spell attack against the target. On a hit, you deal 
3d8 acid damage plus 1d6 persistent acid damage. On a critical 
hit, double the initial damage, but not the persistent damage. 
Heightened (*2) The initial damage increases by 2d8, and the 

persistent acid damage increases by 1d6. 


ACID SPLASH 
ACID | attack es Evocation | 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

You splash a glob of acid that splatters your target and nearby 

creatures. Make a spell attack. If you hit, you deal 1d6 acid 

damage plus 1 splash acid damage. On a critical success, the 
target also takes 1 persistent acid damage. 

Heightened (3rd) The initial damage increases to 1d6 + your 
spellcasting ability modifier, and the persistent damage 
increases to 2. 

Heightened (5th) The initial damage increases to 2d6 + 
your spellcasting ability modifier, the persistent damage 
increases to 3, and the splash damage increases to 2. 

Heightened (7th) The initial damage increases to 3d6 + 
your spellcasting ability modifier, the persistent damage 
increases to 4, and the splash damage increases to 3. 

Heightened (9th) The initial damage increases to 4d6 - 
your spellcasting ability modifier, the persistent damage 
increases to 5, and the splash damage increases to 4. 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 2 


CANTRIP 1 


AERIAL FORM 
En 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *% somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 
You harness your mastery of primal forces to reshape your 
body into a Medium flying animal battle form. When you cast 
this spell, choose bat, bird, pterosaur, or wasp. You can decide 
the specific type of animal (such as an owl or eagle for bird), but 
this has no effect on the form's Size or statistics. While in this 
form, you gain the animal trait. You can Dismiss the spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 

which battle form you choose: 

e AC - 18 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

* 5 temporary Hit Points. 

* Low-light vision. 

* One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the battle 
form you choose, which are the only attacks you can 
Strike with. You're trained with them. Your attack modifier 
is +16, and your damage bonus is +5. These attacks are 
Dexterity based (for the purpose of the clumsy condition, 
for example). If your attack modifier for Dexterity-based 
unarmed attacks is higher, you can use it instead. 

* Acrobatics modifier of +16, unless your own modifier 
is higher. 

You also gain specific abilities based on the form you choose: 

* BatSpeed 20 feet, fly Speed 30 feet; precise echolocation 
40 feet; Melee 9 fangs, Damage 2d8 piercing; Melee *> 
wing (agile), Damage 2d6 bludgeoning. 

e Bird Speed 10 feet, fly Speed 50 feet; Melee +> beak, 
Damage 2d8 piercing; Melee *> talon (agile), Damage 
1d10 slashing. 

* Pterosaur Speed 10 feet, fly Speed 40 feet; imprecise 
scent 30 feet; Melee * beak, Damage 3d6 piercing. 

e Wasp Speed 20 feet, fly Speed 40 feet; Melee «> 
stinger, Damage 1d8 piercing plus 1d6 persistent poison. 

Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Large and your fly Speed 
gains a +10-foot status bonus. You must have enough space 
to expand into or the spell is lost. You instead gain 10 
temporary HP, attack modifier +18, damage bonus +8, and 
Acrobatics +20. 

Heightened (6th) Your battle form is Huge, your fly Speed gains 
a *15-foot status bonus, and your attacks have 10-foot reach. 
You must have enough space to expand into or the spell is 
lost. You instead gain AC = 21 + your level, 15 temporary HP, 
attack modifier +21, damage bonus +4 and double damage 
dice (including persistent damage), and Acrobatics +23. 


AIR BUBBLE 

Traditions arcane, divine, primal 

Cast 2 verbal; Trigger A creature within range enters an 
environment where it can't breathe. 

Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering creature 

Duration 1 minute 


SPELL 4 


SPELL 1 


A bubble of pure air appears around the target's head, allowing 
it to breathe normally. The effect ends as soon as the target 
returns to an environment where it can breathe normally. 


AIR WALK SPELL 4 
Traditions divine, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 5 minutes 

The target can walk on air as if it were solid ground. It can ascend 
and descend in this way at a maximum of a 45-degree angle. 


ALARM SPELL 1 


You punish a creature that transgresses against your deity, 
drawing upon the anguish you feel upon seeing one of your 
deity’s anathema committed. 

You can cast this spell only when a creature actively commits 
a unique act of anathema. For example, if creating undead 
were anathema to your deity, you could use anathematic 
reprisal on a necromancer who had just created undead in 
front of you, but not on an undead creature just for existing. 

You deal 4d6 mental damage to the target, but a basic Will 
save can reduce this damage. If it fails, it is also stupefied 1 for 
1 round. The creature is then temporarily immune for 1 minute. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6. 


ANIMAL FORM 


SPELL 2 


| ABJURATION | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal); Requirements 
3 gp silver bell focus 

Range touch; Area 20-foot burst 

Duration 8 hours 

You ward an area to alert you when creatures enter without your 

permission. When you cast alarm, select a password. Whenever 

a Small or larger corporeal creature enters the spell's area without 

speaking the password, alarm sends your choice of a mental 

alert (in which case the spell gains the mental trait) or an audible 

alarm with the sound and volume of a hand bell (in which case 

the spell gains the auditory trait). Either option automatically 

awakens you, and the bell allows each creature in the area to 

attempt a DC 15 Perception check to wake up. A creature aware 

of the alarm must succeed at a Stealth check against the spell's 

DC or trigger the spell when moving into the area. 

Heightened (3rd) You can specify criteria for which creatures 
sound the alarm spell—for instance, orcs or masked people. 


ALTER REALITY SPELL 10 
Traditions occult 
Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
You use your occult lore and the power of your mind to manipulate 
the spiritual multiverse, resulting in any of the following effects: 
* Duplicate any spell from the occult list of 9th level or 
lower to which you have access. 
* Duplicate any spell from another spell list of 7th level 
or lower. It must be common or you must have access. 
* Produce any effect whose power is in line with the above. 
* Reverse certain effects that refer to the wish spell. 
At the GM's discretion, you can try to produce greater effects, 
but this is dangerous and the spell may have only a partial effect. 


ANATHEMATIC REPRISAL SPELL 4 

ET | MENTAL | 

Traditions divine 

Cast D somatic, verbal; Trigger A creature performs an act 
anathema to your deity. 

Range 30 feet; Targets the triggering creature 

Saving Throw Will 


| POLYMORPH | TRANSMUTATION | 

Traditions primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

You call upon primal energy to transform yourself into a Medium 
animal battle form. When you first cast this spell, choose ape, 
bear, bull, canine, cat, deer, frog, shark, or snake. You can decide 
the specific type of animal (such as lion or snow leopard for cat), 
but this has no effect on the form's Size or statistics. While in 
this form, you gain the animal trait. You can Dismiss the spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 

which battle form you choose: 

* AC =16+ your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

* 5 temporary Hit Points. 

* Low-light vision and imprecise scent 30 feet. 

* One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the 
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks 
you can Strike with. You're trained with them. Your 
attack modifier is +9, and your damage bonus is +1. 
These attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of 
the enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed 
attack bonus is higher, you can use it instead. 

* Athletics modifier of +9, unless your own modifier 
is higher. 

You also gain specific abilities based on the type of animal 

you choose: 

+ Ape Speed 25 feet, climb Speed 20 feet; Melee *9 fist, 
Damage 2d6 bludgeoning. 

+ Bear Speed 30 feet; Melee *$ jaws, Damage 2d8 piercing; 
Melee *> claw (agile), Damage 1d8 slashing. 

+ Bull Speed 30 feet; Melee *9 horn, Damage 2d8 piercing. 

e Canine Speed 40 feet; Melee *9 jaws, Damage 2d8 
piercing. 

+ Cat Speed 40 feet; Melee *$ jaws, Damage 2d6 piercing; 
Melee *> claw (agile), Damage 1d10 slashing. 

+ Deer Speed 50 feet; Melee *$ antler, Damage 2c 6 piercing. 

+ Frog Speed 25 feet, swim Speed 25 feet; Melee *$ jaws, 
Damage 2d6 bludgeoning; Melee *$ tongue (reach 15 
feet), Damage 2d4 bludgeoning. 

e Shark swim Speed 35 feet; Melee *$ jaws, Damage 
2d8 piercing; breathe underwater but not in air. 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
9 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


ine iim (DIM e e T = ^ 
SATHF CORE RULEBOOK 4j 
Alis aa toi in mrs — na - ey E ca il 


* Snake Speed 20 feet, climb Speed 20 feet, swim 
Speed 20 feet; Melee *$ fangs, Damage 2d4 piercing 
plus 1d6 poison. 

Heightened (3rd) You instead gain 10 temporary HP, AC = 17 + your 
level, attack modifier +14, damage bonus +5, and Athletics +14. 

Heightened (4th) Your battle form is Large and your attacks 
have 10-foot reach. You must have enough space to expand 
into or the spell is lost. You instead gain 15 temporary HP, 
AC = 18 + your level, attack modifier +16, damage bonus +9, 
and Athletics +16. 

Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Huge and your attacks 
have 15-foot reach. You must have enough space to expand 
into or the spell is lost. You instead gain 20 temporary HP, 
AC = 18 + your level, attack modifier +18, damage bonus +7 
and double the number of damage dice, and Athletics +20. 


ANIMAL MESSENGER SPELL 2 

Traditions primal 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range 120 feet 

Duration see text 

You offer food, and an ordinary Tiny animal within range 

approaches to eat it. You imprint the image, direction, and 

distance of an obvious place or landmark well known to you 

within the animal. You can also attach a small object or note up to 

light Bulk to it. The animal does its best to reach the destination; if 

it makes it there, it waits nearby and allows nonhostile creatures 

to approach and remove the attached object. The spell ends after 

the message is delivered or after 24 hours, whichever comes first. 
If there are no Tiny wild animals in range, the spell is lost. 


ANIMAL VISION SPELL 3 
[ommo | wer | 

Traditions primal 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 animal 

Duration 1 hour 

You tap into the target's senses, allowing you to see, hear, and 
otherwise sense whatever it senses for the spell's duration. If 
the target wishes to prevent you from doing so, it can attempt 
a Will save, negating the spell on a success, but most animals 
don't bother to do so. While tapping into the target's senses, 
you cant use your own body's senses, but you can change 
back and forth from your body's senses to the target's senses 
using a single action, which has the concentrate trait. 


ANT HAUL SPELL 1 
Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 8 hours 

You reinforce the target's musculoskeletal system to bear more 
weight. The target can carry 3 more Bulk than normal before 
becoming encumbered and up to a maximum of 6 more Bulk. 


ANTIMAGIC FIELD 
LE 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 
Area 10-foot emanation, which affects you 
Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
You repel all magic from the target area, preventing spells 
and other magic from functioning. Spells can't penetrate the 
area, magic items cease to function within it, and no one 
inside can cast spells or use magic abilities. Likewise, spells— 
such as dispel magic—can't affect the field itself unless they 
are of a higher level. Magic effects resume the moment they 
pass outside the field. For example, a ray fired from one side 
of the field could target a creature on the other side (as long 
as caster and target are both outside the field). A summoned 
creature winks out of existence but reappears if the field 
moves or ends. Invested magic items cease to function, but 
they remain invested and resume functioning when they exit 
the field; the ability boost from an apex item isn't suppressed 
within the field. Spells of a higher level than the antimagic 
field overcome its effects, and can even be cast by a creature 
within the field. 

The field disrupts only magic, so a +3 longsword still 
functions as a longsword. Magically created creatures (such 
as golems) function normally within an antimagic field. 


AUGURY SPELL 2 
EI mnc 
Traditions divine, occult 
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 
You gain a vague glimpse of the future. During the casting of 
this spell, ask about the results of a particular course of action. 
The spell can predict results up to 30 minutes into the future 
and reveals the GM's best guess among the following outcomes: 
* Weal The results will be good. 
* WoeThe results will be bad. 
* Wealand Woe The results will be a mix of good and bad. 
* Nothing There won't be particularly good or bad results. 
The GM rolls a secret DC 6 flat check. On a failure, the result 
is always "nothing" This makes it impossible to tell whether a 
"nothing" result is accurate. If anyone asks about the same topic 
asthe first casting of augury during an additional casting, the GM 
uses the secret roll result from the first casting. If circumstances 
change, though, it's possible to get a different result. 


AVATAR 
Traditions divine 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 
You transform into an avatar of your deity, assuming a Huge 
battle form. You must have space to expand or the spell is lost. 
You have hands in this battle form and can take manipulate 
actions. You can Dismiss this spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 
which deity's battle form you assume: 


SPELL 8 


SPELL 10 


You also gain the specific abilities listed for your deity below: 


AC = 25 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

30 temporary Hit Points. 

Darkvision. 

One or more attacks specific to your deity's battle 
form, which are the only attacks you can Strike with. 
You're trained with them. Your attack modifier is *33, 
and you use the listed damage. Melee attacks are 
Strength based (for the purposes of the enfeebled 
condition, for example) unless they have the finesse 
trait, and all ranged attacks are Dexterity based. 
Attacks that deal positive or negative damage don't 
heal creatures. 

Athletics modifier of +35, unless your own is higher. 


Abadar Speed 50 feet, burrow Speed 30 feet, immune 
to immobilized; Ranged *$ crossbow (range increment 
120 feet, reload 1), Damage 6d10+3 piercing. 
Asmodeus Speed 70 feet, air walk; Melee * mace 
(reach 15 feet), Damage 6d10+6 bludgeoning; Ranged 
*> hellfire (range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 fire. 
Calistria Speed 30 feet, fly Speed 70 feet; Melee 
*9 whip (disarm, finesse, nonlethal, reach 20 feet), 
Damage 6d4+6 slashing; Ranged *® savored sting 
(range 60 feet), Damage 6d6+3 poison. 

Cayden Cailean Speed 70 feet, air walk, ignore difficult 
terrain and greater difficult terrain; Melee «> rapier 


(deadly, reach 15 feet), Damage 6d6+6 piercing; Ranged 
* ale splash (range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 poison. 
Desna Speed 30 feet, fly Speed 70 feet; Melee *$ 
starknife (agile, deadly, finesse, reach 15 feet, silver, 
thrown 60 feet), Damage 6d4+6 piercing; Ranged *> 
moonbeam (range 120 feet, silver), Damage 6d6+3 fire. 
Erastil Speed 70 feet, air walk, ignore difficult terrain 
and greater difficult terrain; Ranged 9 longbow (deadly 
d8, range increment 150 feet), Damage 6d8+3 piercing. 
Gorum Speed 70 feet, immune to immobilized; Melee 
*9 sreatsword (versatile P, reach 15 feet), Damage 
6d12+6 slashing. 

Gozreh no land Speed, fly Speed 70 feet, swim Speed 
70 feet, ignore difficult terrain and greater difficult 
terrain; Melee *} waves (reach 15 feet, shove, thrown 
20 feet), Damage 6d8+6 bludgeoning; Ranged *$ wind 
(versatile electricity, range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 
bludgeoning. 

lomedae Speed 70 feet, air walk; shield (15 Hardness, 
can't be damaged); Melee *9 longsword (versatile P, 
reach 15 feet), Damage 6d8+6 slashing. 

Irori Speed 80 feet, air walk; Melee *} unfettered 
strike (agile, versatile P or S, finesse, reach 15 feet), 
Damage 6d8+6 bludgeoning; Ranged *$ wind strike 
(range 60 feet), Damage 6d4+6 bludgeoning. 
Lamashtu Speed 30 feet, fly Speed 70 feet; Melee 
+ falchion (forceful, reach 15 feet), Damage 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 


SKILLS 


FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


Tray 


JATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
a T cea Se n Ri i 


6d10+6 slashing; Ranged «> waters of Lamashtu 
(range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 poison. 

Nethys Speed 70 feet, air walk; Ranged *9 raw magic 
(range 120 feet; versatile cold, electricity, or fire), 
Damage 6d6 force. 

Norgorber Speed 70 feet, air walk, ignore difficult 
terrain and greater difficult terrain; Melee «> 
shortsword (agile, finesse, versatile S, reach 15 feet), 
Damage 6d6+6 piercing; Ranged *> blackfinger toss 
(range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 poison. 

Pharasma Speed 70 feet, air walk; Melee *$ dagger 
(agile, finesse, reach 15 feet, thrown 40 feet), Damage 
6d6+6 slashing; Ranged *> spiral blast (range 120 
feet, damages only undead), Damage 6d8+3 positive. 
Rovagug Speed 50 feet, burrow Speed 30 feet, immune 
to immobilized; Melee *$ jaws (reach 15 feet), Damage 
6d12+6 piercing; Melee *9 leg (agile, versatile P, reach 
15 feet), Damage 6d8+6 bludgeoning. 

Sarenrae Speed 30 feet, fly Speed 70 feet; Melee *> 
scimitar (forceful, nonlethal, reach 15 feet), Damage 
6d6+6 slashing; Ranged *$9 everflame (nonlethal, 
range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 fire. 

Shelyn Speed 70 feet, air walk, ignore difficult terrain 
and greater difficult terrain; Melee *> glaive (deadly 
d8, nonlethal, reach 20 feet), Damage 6d8+6 slashing; 
Ranged *> melody of inner beauty, (nonlethal, range 
120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 sonic. 

Torag Speed 50 feet, burrow Speed 30 feet, immune to 
immobilized; shield (15 Hardness, can’t be damaged); 
Melee * warhammer (reach 15 feet, shove), Damage 
6d8+6 bludgeoning. 

Urgathoa Speed 70 feet, air walk; Melee *$ scythe (deadly 
d10, trip, reach 15 feet), Damage 6d10+6 slashing; Ranged 
*> pallid plague (range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 negative. 
Zon-Kuthon Speed 70 feet, air walk, ignore difficult 
terrain and greater difficult terrain; Melee *} spiked 
chain (disarm, trip, reach 15 feet), Damage 6d8+6 
slashing; Ranged *9 midnight pain (mental, nonlethal, 
range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 mental. 


BALEFUL POLYMORPH 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *}% somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies 

You transform the target creature into a harmless animal 

appropriate to the area, with effects based on its Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target's body gains minor features of the harmless 
animal. Its insides churn as they partially transform, causing 
it to be sickened 1. When it recovers from the sickened 
condition, its features revert to normal. 

Failure The target transforms for 1 minute but keeps its mind. If 
it spends all its actions on its turn concentrating on its original 
form, it can attempt a Will save to end the effect immediately. 


SPELL 6 


Critical Failure The target is transformed into the chosen 
harmless animal, body and mind, for an unlimited duration. 


BANE SPELL 1 
Traditions divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 5-foot emanation 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 

You fill the minds of your enemies with doubt. Enemies in the 
area must succeed at a Will save or take a -1 status penalty to 
attack rolls as long as they are in the area. Once per turn, starting 
the turn after you cast bane, you can use a single action, which 
has the concentrate trait, to increase the emanation's radius by 
5 feet and force enemies in the area that werent yet affected to 
attempt another saving throw. Bane can counteract bless. 


BANISHMENT SPELL 5 

| ABJURATION f INCAPACITATION 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature that isn't on its home plane 

Saving Throw Will 

You send the target back to its home plane. The target must 

attempt a Will save. You can spend an extra action while Casting 

this Spell and add a material component to give the creature a 

-2 circumstance penalty to its save. The component must be 

a specially gathered object that is anathema to the creature, 

and not from a material component pouch. This spell fails if you 

aren't on your home plane when you cast it. 

Critical Success The target resists being banished and you are 
stunned 1. 

Success The target resists being banished. 

Failure The target is banished. 

Critical Failure The target is banished and can’t return by any 
means to the plane it's banished from for 1 week. 

Heightened (9th) You can target up to 10 creatures. The extra 
material component affects targets to which it is anathema. 


BARKSKIN SPELL 2 


Traditions primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 

Duration 10 minutes 

The target's skin becomes covered in bark. The target gains 

resistance 2 to bludgeoning and piercing damage and weakness 

3 to fire. After the target takes fire damage, it can Dismiss the 

spell as a free action triggered by taking the damage; doing so 

doesnt reduce the fire damage the target was dealt. 

Heightened (+2) The resistances increase by 2, and the 
weakness increases by 3. 


BIND SOUL 
| UNCOMMON | EVIL | NECROMANCY | 


Traditions divine, occult 


SPELL 9 


Cast 99 somatic, verbal; Requirements black sapphire with a 
gp value of at least the target's level x 100 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature that died within the 
last minute 

Duration unlimited 


A creature that succeeds at this save when the wall is 
created is pushed to the nearest space on the side of its 
choice. Creatures trying to move through the wall fail to 
do so if they critically fail the save, ending their movement 
adjacent to the wall. 


You wrench the target's soul away before it can pass on to the 
afterlife and imprison it in a black sapphire. 

While the soul is in the gem, the target can't be returned to 
life through any means, even powerful magic such as wish. If 
the gem is destroyed or bind soul is counteracted on the gem, 
the soul is freed. The gem has AC 16 and Hardness 10. A gem 
can't hold more than one soul, and any attempt wastes the spell. 


BIND UNDEAD SPELL 3 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 mindless undead creature with a level 
no greater than bind undead's spell level 

Duration 1 day 

With a word of necromantic power, you seize control of the 

target. It gains the minion trait. If you or an ally uses any 

hostile actions against the target, the spell ends. 


BLACK TENTACLES 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst adjacent to a flat surface 
Duration 1 minute 
Oily black tentacles rise up and attempt to capture creatures 
in the area. Make spell attack rolls against the Fortitude DC of 
each creature in the area. Any creature you succeed against 
is grabbed by a tentacle and takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage. 
Whenever a creature ends its turn in the area, the tentacles 
attempt to grab that creature if they haven't already, and they 
deal 1d6 bludgeoning damage to any creature already grabbed. 
The tentacles' Escape DC is equal to your spell DC. A creature 
can attack a tentacle in an attempt to release its grip. Its AC 
is equal to your spell DC, and it is destroyed if it takes 12 or 
more damage. Even if destroyed, additional tentacles continue 
to grow in the area until the duration ends. You can Dismiss 
the spell. 


BLADE BARRIER 
| Evocation | Force | 
Traditions divine 

Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet 

Duration 1 minute 

Blades of force form a churning wall. The wall is a straight 
line 20 feet high, 120 feet long, and 2 inches thick, and it 
provides cover. The wall deals 7d8 force damage to each 
creature that's in the wall's space when it is created, that 
attempts to pass through the wall, or that ends its turn 
inside the wall. A basic Reflex save reduces the damage. 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 6 


Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8. 


SPELL 1 


BLESS 

|. ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL 
Traditions divine, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Area 5-foot emanation 
Duration 1 minute 


Blessings from beyond help your companions strike true. 
You and your allies gain a *1 status bonus to attack rolls 
while within the emanation. Once per turn, starting the turn 
after you cast bless, you can use a single action, which has 
the concentrate trait, to increase the emanation's radius by 5 
feet. Bless can counteract bane. 


BLINDNESS SPELL 3 


[ capacrraTion | necromancy | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 


Saving Throw Fortitude 


You blind the target. The effect is determined by the target's 
Fortitude save. The target then becomes temporarily immune 
for 1 minute. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is blinded until its next turn begins. 
Failure The target is blinded for 1 minute. 

Critical Failure The target is blinded permanently. 


BLINK 


I | TeLEPoRTATION | 
Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

You blink quickly between the Material Plane and the Ethereal 
Plane. You gain resistance 5 to all damage (except force). You 
can Sustain the Spell to vanish and reappear 10 feet away in 
a random direction determined by the GM; the movement 
doesn't trigger reactions. At the end of your turn, you vanish 
and reappear as above. 

Heightened (+2) The resistance increases by 3. 


SPELL 4 


SPELL 2 


Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 1 minute 

The target's form appears blurry. It becomes concealed. As the 
nature of this effect still leaves the target's location obvious, 
the target can't use this concealment to Hide or Sneak. 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
C9 
HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


E 


& TREASURE 


Slee ne mco | 


^ THFIN ER ) CORE RULEBOOK jJ 
e == M a 5 
BREATH OF LIFE SPELL5 


[ in [ womoner | rose] 


Traditions divine 

Cast 2 verbal; Trigger A living creature within range would die. 
Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering creature 

Your blessing revives a creature at the moment of its death. 
You prevent the target from dying and restore Hit Points to the 
target equal to 4d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. You 
can't use breath of life if the triggering effect was disintegrate 
or a death effect. 


BURNING HANDS 


SPELL 1 


* A blast of freezing wind deals 3d10 cold damage. 

* |ncredible lightning lashes the area, dealing 3d10 
electricity damage. 

* Beating winds churn across the sky, dealing 3d10 
bludgeoning damage to creatures flying in the area. 

e An instant tsunami sweeps over creatures in the area, 
dealing 3d10 bludgeoning damage with the water trait 
(doubled for creatures swimming in the area). 

* A massive wildfire burns in a sudden inferno, dealing 
3d10 fire damage. 


CHAIN LIGHTNING SPELL 6 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Area 15-foot cone 

Saving Throw basic Reflex 

Gouts of flame rush from your hands. You deal 2d6 fire 
damage to creatures in the area. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


CALM EMOTIONS 

T nomas [ wem | 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst 

Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You forcibly calm creatures in the area, soothing them into a 

nonviolent state; each creature must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success Calming urges impose a -1 status penalty to the 
creature's attack rolls. 

Failure Any emotion effects that would affect the creature 
are suppressed and the creature can't use hostile actions. 
If the target is subject to hostility from any other creature, 
it ceases to be affected by calm emotions. 

Critical Failure As failure, but hostility doesn't end 
the effect. 


CATACLYSM SPELL 10 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 1,000 feet; Area 60-foot burst 
Saving Throw basic Reflex 
You call upon the unimaginable power of world-ending 
cataclysms, ripping a small piece of each cataclysm and 
combining them together into one horrifically powerful 
attack. The following effects come down upon all creatures 
in the area. Treat the resistances of creatures in the area 
as if they were 10 lower for the purpose of determining the 
cataclysm's damage. Each creature attempts one basic Reflex 
save that applies to all five types of damage. 

* Flesh-dissolving acid rain deals 3d10 acid damage. 

* Aroaring earthquake shakes and bludgeons creatures 

on the ground, dealing 3d10 bludgeoning damage. 


SPELL 2 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Targets 1 creature, plus any number of 
additional creatures 

Saving Throw Reflex 

You discharge a powerful bolt of lightning at the target, dealing 

8d12 electricity damage. The target must attempt a basic 

Reflex save. The electricity arcs to another creature within 30 

feet of the first target, jumps to another creature within 30 

feet of that target, and so on. You can end the chain at any 

point. You can't target the same creature more than once, and 

you must have line of effect to all targets. Roll the damage 

only once, and apply it to each target (halving or doubling as 

appropriate for its saving throw outcome). The chain ends if 

any one of the targets critically succeeds at its save. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12. 


CHARM 
EXXETTHEETETUNSDTN 
Traditions arcane, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 hour 

To the target, your words are honey and your visage seems 

bathed in a dreamy haze. It must attempt a Will save, with a +4 

circumstance bonus if you or your allies recently threatened it 
or used hostile actions against it. 

You can Dismiss the spell. If you use hostile actions against 
the target, the spell ends. When the spell ends, the target 
doesn't necessarily realize it was charmed unless its friendship 
with you or the actions you convinced it to take clash with 
its expectations, meaning you could potentially convince the 
target to continue being your friend via mundane means. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected and aware you tried 

to charm it. 

Success The target is unaffected but thinks your spell was 
something harmless instead of charm, unless it identifies 
the spell (see Identifying Spells on page 305). 

Failure The target's attitude becomes friendly toward you. If it 
was friendly, it becomes helpful. It can't use hostile actions 
against you. 

Critical Failure The target's attitude becomes helpful toward 
you, and it can't use hostile actions against you. 


SPELL 1 


Heightened (4th) The duration lasts until the next time you 
make your daily preparations. 

Heightened (8th) The duration lasts until the next time you 
make your daily preparations, and you can target up to 
10 creatures. 


CHILL TOUCH 

morm 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 living or undead creature 
Saving Throw Fortitude 

Siphoning negative energy into yourself, your hand radiates a 
pale darkness. Your touch weakens the living and disorients 
undead, possibly even causing them to flee. The effect depends 
on whether the target is living or undead. 

* Living Creature The spell deals negative damage equal 
to 1d4 plus your spellcasting modifier. The target 
attempts a basic Fortitude save, but is also enfeebled 1 
for 1 round on a critical failure. 

* Undead Creature The target is flat-footed for 1 round 
on a failed Fortitude save. On a critical failure, the 
target is also fleeing for 1 round unless it succeeds at a 
Will save. 

Heightened (+1) The negative damage to living creatures 
increases by 1d4. 


CHILLING DARKNESS 
| arrack [ coto | parkness | 
Traditions divine 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 
You shoot an utterly cold ray of darkness tinged with unholy 
energy. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. You 
deal 5d6 cold damage, plus 5d6 evil damage if the target is 
a celestial. 
If the ray passes through an area of magical light or targets 
a creature affected by magical light, chilling darkness attempts 
to counteract the light. If you need to determine whether 
the ray passes through an area of light, draw a line between 
yourself and the spell's target. 
Critical Success The target takes double damage. 
Success The target takes full damage. 
Heightened (+1) The cold damage increases by 2d6, and the 
evil damage against celestials increases by 2d6. 


CHROMATIC WALL 

pr 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet 

Duration 10 minutes 

You create an opaque wall of light in a single vibrant color. 
The wall is straight and vertical, stretching 60 feet long and 
30 feet high. If the wall would pass through a creature, the 
spell is lost. The wall sheds bright light for 20 feet on each 


CANTRIP 1 


SPELL 3 


EVOCATION | EVIL 


SPELL 5 


ES dine 


SPELLS 


= 


MAGIC AND MORALITY 
While magic allows you to perform wondrous acts in 
the game, it can be used for terrible purposes. While 
some spells are obviously vile or have the evil trait and a 
direct connection to the profane, other spells can be used 
for good or ill. Using magic does not free you from the 
morality of the outcome. 

Nowhere is this more true than when it comes to 
enchantment spells, especially those used to compel a 
character to do something. These spells can remove the 
power of choice from a character and can very easily 
be used in ways that are evil. Dominating an ogre and 
forcing him to abandon his guard post is not necessarily 
evil, but using that same spell to force a merchant to give 
you all of his wares certainly is. Using a spell for an evil 
purpose can cause a player character's alignment to shift 
to evil, with the ultimate judgment of whether a player is 
using a spell for an evil purpose left up to the GM. 

Regardless of in-game effects, all players should take 
care when using such spells. These effects can negatively 
affect people at the table, as they might create situations 
that echo truly awful experiences players might have 
had, creating uncomfortable or hostile environments. 
Players and GMs should work to prevent these situations 
so everyone can focus on having fun at the table. 


side, and dim light for the next 20 feet. You can ignore the 
wall's effects. 

Roll 1d4 to determine the color of the wall. Each color has a 
particular effect on items, effects, or creatures that attempt to 
pass through. Chromatic wall can't be counteracted normally; 
rather, each color is automatically counteracted when targeted 
by a specific spell, even if that spell’s level is lower than that 
of chromatic wall. 

1. Red The wall destroys ranged weapon ammunition 
(such as arrows and crossbow bolts) that would pass 
through, and it deals 20 fire damage to anyone 
passing through, with a basic Reflex save. Cone of 
cold can counteract a red chromatic wall. 

2. Orange The wall destroys thrown weapons that would 
pass through, and it deals 25 acid damage to anyone 
passing through, with a basic Reflex save. Gust of wind 
can counteract an orange chromatic wall. 

3. Yellow The wall stops acid, cold, electricity, fire, force, 
negative, positive, and sonic effects from passing 
through, and it deals 30 electricity damage to anyone 
passing through, with a basic Reflex save. Disintegrate 
can counteract a yellow chromatic wall. 

4.Green The wall stops toxins, gases, and breath 
weapons from passing through. It deals 10 poison 
damage to anyone passing through and makes 
them enfeebled 1 for 1 minute. A basic Fortitude 
save reduces the damage and negates the enfeebled 
condition on a success. Passwall can counteract a 
green chromatic wall. 


= 


GAME 


ne | 


tU CORE RULEBOOK J 
T rae E e m il 


Heightened (7th) The spell's duration increases to 1 hour. Roll 1d8 
to determine the wall's color; the results for 5-8 are below. A 
red, orange, yellow, or green wall deals an extra 10 damage. 
5, Blue The wall stops auditory, petrification, sonic, and 

visual effects from passing through, and creatures 
passing through are subject to the effects of flesh to 
stone. Magic missile can counteract a blue chromatic wall. 

6. Indigo The wall stops divination and mental effects 
from passing through, and those passing through are 
subject to the effects of warp mind. Searing light can 
counteract an indigo chromatic wall. 

7. Violet The wall prevents spells from targeting the other 
side (area effects still cross as normal). Creatures passing 
through must succeed at a Will save or they are slowed 
1for 1 minute; on a critical failure, the creature is instead 
sent to another plane, with the effect of plane shift. Dispel 
magic can counteract a violet chromatic wall. 

8. Reroll, and creatures that pass through the wall take a 
-2 circumstance penalty to their saves. 


CIRCLE OF PROTECTION 

[wenn soumos | 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Area 10-foot emanation centered on the touched 
creature 

Duration 1 minute 


SPELL 3 


You create an invisible floating eye at a location within range 
(even if it's outside your line of sight or line of effect). The eye 
can't move, but you can see in all directions from that point as 
if using your normal visual senses. 


CLOAK OF COLORS 

[usos usn 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Duration 1 minute 

A cloak of swirling colors shrouds the target. Creatures are 
dazzled while adjacent to it, and attacking the target causes 
a brilliant flash of light. A creature that hits the target with a 
melee attack must attempt a Will save. 

Success The attacker is unaffected. 

Failure The attacker is blinded for 1 round. 

Critical Failure The attacker is stunned for 1 round. 

The creature is temporarily immune until the end of its turn; 
this effect has the incapacitation trait. 


CLOUDKILL 

| neamh | necromancy f poison f 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *}%> material, somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst 

Saving Throw basic Fortitude; Duration 1 minute 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 5 


You ward a creature and those nearby against a specified 
alignment. Choose chaotic, evil, good, or lawful; this spell gains 
the opposing trait. Creatures in the area gain a *1 status bonus 
to AC against attacks by creatures of the chosen alignment 
and to saves against effects from such creatures. This bonus 
increases to *3 against effects from such creatures that directly 
control the target and attacks made by summoned creatures 
of the chosen alignment. Summoned creatures of the chosen 
alignment cant willingly enter the area without succeeding at a 
Will save; repeated attempts use the first save result. 
Heightened (Ath) The duration increases to 1 hour. 


CLAIRAUDIENCE 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range 500 feet 

Duration 10 minutes 

You create an invisible floating ear at a location within range 
(even if it's outside your line of sight or line of effect). It can't 
move, but you can hear through the ear as if using your 
normal auditory senses. 


CLAIRVOYANCE 
[own [ sm ] 


Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range 500 feet 

Duration 10 minutes 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 4 


You conjure a poisonous fog. This functions as obscuring mist, 
except the area moves 10 feet away from you each round. A 
breathing creature that starts its turn in the area takes 6d8 poison 
damage with a basic Fortitude save. You can Dismiss the spell. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8. 


COLLECTIVE TRANSPOSITION 

| conjuRATION | TELEPORTATION | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot emanation; Targets up to 2 creatures 

You teleport the targets to new positions within the area. The 

creatures must each be able to fit in their new space, and their 

positions must be unoccupied, entirely within the area, and in 

your line of sight. Unwilling creatures can attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target can teleport if it wants, but it 
chooses the destination within range. 

Success The target is unaffected. 

Failure You teleport the target and choose its destination. 

Heightened (+1) The number of targets increases by 1. 


COLOR SPRAY SPELL 1 
Psion J wcarscraron] vss | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Area 15-foot cone 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 or more rounds (see below) 
Swirling colors affect viewers based on their Will saves. 
Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 


SPELL 6 


Success The creature is dazzled for 1 round. 

Failure The creature is stunned 1, blinded for 1 round, and 
dazzled for 1 minute. 

Critical Failure The creature is stunned for 1 round and blinded 
for 1 minute. 


COMMAND 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration until the end of the target's next turn 

You shout a command that's hard to ignore. You can command 

the target to approach you, run away (as if it had the fleeing 

condition), release what it's holding, drop prone, or stand in 

place. It can't Delay or take any reactions until it has obeyed 

your command. The effects depend on the target's Will save. 

Success The creature is unaffected. 

Failure For the first action on its next turn, the creature must 
use a single action to do as you command. 

Critical Failure The target must use all its actions on its next 
turn to obey your command. 

Heightened (5th) You can target up to 10 creatures. 


COMPREHEND LANGUAGE 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Duration 1 hour 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 2 


SPELLS 


The target can understand the meaning of a single language 
it is hearing or reading when you cast the spell. This doesnt 
let it understand codes, language couched in metaphor, and the 
like (subject to GM discretion). If the target can hear multiple 
languages and knows that, it can choose which language to 
understand; otherwise, choose one of the languages randomly. 
Heightened (3rd) The target can also speak the language. 

Heightened (4th) You can target up to 10 creatures, and 

targets can also speak the language. 


CONE OF COLD 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Area 60-foot cone 

Saving Throw basic Reflex 
Icy cold rushes forth from your hands. You deal 12d6 cold 
damage to creatures in the area. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


CONFUSION 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 
You befuddle your target with strange impulses, causing it to 
act randomly. The effects are determined by the target's Will 
save. You can Dismiss the spell. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 4 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


an y 


ieee ne S| 


t) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
T rae e M dil 


Success The target babbles incoherently and is stunned 1. 

Failure The target is confused for 1 minute. It can attempt a 
new save at the end of each of its turns to end the confusion. 

Critical Failure The target is confused for 1 minute, with no 
save to end early. 

Heightened (8th) You can target up to 10 creatures. 


CONTINGENCY 

Í ABJURATION 

Traditions arcane 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You prepare a spell that will trigger later. While casting 
contingency, you also cast another spell of 4th level or lower 
with a casting time of no more than 3 actions. This companion 
spell must be one that can affect you. You must make any 
decisions for the spell when you cast contingency, such as 
choosing a damage type for resist energy. During the casting, 
choose a trigger under which the spell will be cast, using the 
same restrictions as for the trigger of a Ready action. Once 
contingency is cast, you can cause the companion spell to 
come into effect as a reaction with that trigger. It affects 
only you, even if it would affect more creatures. If you define 
complicated conditions, as determined by the GM, the trigger 
might fail. If you cast contingency again, the newer casting 
supersedes the older. 


SPELL 7 


You create enough food to feed six Medium creatures for a 
day. This food is bland and unappealing, but it is nourishing. 
After 1 day, if no one has eaten the food, it decays and 
becomes inedible. Most Small creatures eat one-quarter as 
much as a Medium creature (one-sixteenth as much for most 
Tiny creatures), and most Large creatures eat 10 times as 
much (100 times as much for Huge creatures and so on). 
Heightened (Ath) You can feed 12 Medium creatures. 
Heightened (6th) You can feed 50 Medium creatures. 
Heightened (8th) You can feed 200 Medium creatures. 


CREATE WATER SPELL 1 
Traditions arcane, divine, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 0 feet 

As you cup your hands, water begins to flow forth from them. 
You create 2 gallons of water. If no one drinks it, it evaporates 
after 1 day. 


CREATION 

ENTM 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range 0 feet 

Duration 1 hour 


SPELL 4 


Heightened (8th) You can choose a spell of 5th level or lower. 
Heightened (9th) You can choose a spell of 6th level or lower. 
Heightened (10th) You can choose a spell of 7th level or lower. 


CONTINUAL FLAME SPELL 2 

ECTIETA 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal; Cost 6 gp of ruby dust 

Range touch; Targets 1 object 

Duration unlimited 

A magical flame springs up from the object, as bright as a torch. 

It doesn't need oxygen, react to water, or generate heat. 

Heightened (+1) The cost increases as follows: 16 gp for 3rd level; 
30 gp for Ath; 60 gp for 5th; 120 gp for 6th; 270 gp for 7th; 
540 gp for 8th; 1,350 gp for 9th; and 3,350 gp for 1Oth. 


CONTROL WATER SPELL 5 
ESTNE 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Area 50 feet long by 50 feet wide 

By imposing your will upon the water, you can raise or 
lower the level of water in the chosen area by 10 feet. Water 
creatures in the area are subjected to the effects of slow. 


CREATE FOOD SPELL 2 
Traditions arcane, divine, primal 

Cast 1 hour (somatic, verbal) 

Range 30 feet 


You conjure a temporary object from eldritch energy. It must 
be of vegetable matter (such as wood or paper) and 5 cubic 
feet or smaller. It can't rely on intricate artistry or complex 
moving parts, never fulfills a cost or the like, and can't be made 
of precious materials or materials with a rarity of uncommon 
or higher. It is obviously temporarily conjured, and thus can't 
be sold or passed off as a genuine item. 

Heightened (5th) The item is metal and can include common 

minerals, like feldspar or quartz. 


CRISIS OF FAITH 

EE [wem 

Traditions divine 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will 

You assault the target’s faith, riddling the creature with 

doubt and mental turmoil that deal 6d6 mental damage, or 

6d8 mental damage if it can cast divine spells. The effects are 

determined by its Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes half damage. 

Failure The target takes full damage; if the target can cast 
divine spells, it's stupefied 1 for 1 round. 

Critical Failure The target takes double damage, is stupefied 1 
for 1 round, and can't cast divine spells for 1 round. 

To many deities, casting this spell on a follower of your own 

deity without significant cause is anathema. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6 (or by 2d8 if 
the target is a divine spellcaster). 


SPELL 3 


CRUSADE SPELL9 DARKNESS SPELL 2 
| UNCOMMON | ENCHANTMENT | LINcuisTic | MENTAL | 


Traditions divine 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 60 feet; Targets up to 4 creatures 
Duration 10 minutes 


Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast *}9 material, somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst 
Duration 1 minute 


You issue a divine mandate or proclaim a cause to the 
targets. It can be to attain an item, claim a patch of land, 
slay a creature, war with a group, or be entirely peaceful. 
Your cause can't force the targets to harm one another or 
themselves. The targets become completely dedicated to 
that cause, depending on their levels. They choose their 
own actions, but they favor direct action over inaction or 
indirect action. 

* 13th or Lower The target is so dedicated to the cause 
that it pursues the cause to the death (unless you 
say otherwise). 

* 14th The target is dedicated to the cause, but the spell 
ends for the target if it's reduced to half its maximum 
Hit Points or fewer. 

* 15th As 14th, plus the target can attempt a Will save at 
the end of each of its turns to end the spell for itself. 

The spell ends for all creatures if you or one of your allies 
uses a hostile action against a target, or when the cause is 
completed. The GM might determine this spell has alignment 
traits befitting the cause. 


You create a shroud of darkness that prevents light from 
penetrating or emanating within the area. Light does not enter 
the area and any non-magical light sources, such as a torch 
or lantern, do not emanate any light while inside the area, 
even if their light radius would extend beyond the darkness. 
This also suppresses magical light of your darkness spell's 
level or lower. Light cant pass through, so creatures in the 
area can't see outside. From outside, it appears as a globe of 
pure darkness. 
Heightened (4th) Even creatures with darkvision (but not 
greater darkvision) can barely see through the darkness. 
They treat targets seen through the darkness as concealed. 


DARKVISION SPELL 2 
| DIVINATION | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 hour 

You grant yourself supernatural sight in areas of darkness. 
You gain darkvision. 


Heightened (10th) The level for each category increases by 2. 


SPELL 5 


| menman | 


Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *}% somatic, verbal 


Area 30-foot cone 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 or more rounds 

You inflict despair on creatures in the area. The effects for 

each creature are determined by its Will save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success For 1 round, the creature can't use reactions and must 
attempt another save at the start of its turn; on a failure, it 
is slowed 1 for that turn as it sobs uncontrollably. 

Failure As success, but the duration is 1 minute. 

Critical Failure As failure, and the creature is automatically 
slowed 1 for 1 minute. 

Heightened (7th) The area increases to a 60-foot cone. 


DANCING LIGHTS CANTRIP 1 
Traditions arcane, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet 

Duration sustained 

You create up to four floating lights, no two of which are more 
than 10 feet apart. Each sheds light like a torch. When you 
Sustain the Spell, you can move any number of lights up to 60 
feet. Each light must remain within 120 feet of you and within 
10 feet of all others, or it winks out. 


Heightened (3rd) The spell's range is touch and it targets 
1 willing creature. 

Heightened (5th) The spell's range is touch and it targets 1 
willing creature. The duration is until the next time you 
make your daily preparations. 


DAZE 


| CANTRIP | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL 


CANTRIP 1 


| NONLETHAL | 


Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round 

You cloud the target's mind and daze it with a mental jolt. 
The jolt deals mental damage equal to your spellcasting 
ability modifier; the target must attempt a basic Will save. If 
the target critically fails the save, it is also stunned 1. 
Heightened (+2) The damage increases by 1d6. 


DEAFNESS 


EE 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

The target loses hearing; it must attempt a Fortitude save. The 
target is then temporarily immune for 1 minute. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is deafened for 1 round. 

Failure The target is deafened for 10 minutes. 

Critical Failure The target is deafened permanently. 


SPELL 2 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
No 

HE AGE OF 
~ LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


| eel 


24 


ts 
- 
À 
l^ 


J 


P THFH CORE RULEBOOK 4j 


DEATH KNELL SPELL 2 


DETECT MAGIC CANTRIP 1 


ENT 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 living creature that has O HP 
Saving Throw Will 


You snuff the life out of a creature on the brink of death. The 
target must attempt a Will save. If this kills it, you gain 10 
temporary HP and a *1 status bonus to attack and damage rolls 
for 10 minutes. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target's dying value increases by 1. 

Failure The target dies. 


DEATH WARD SPELL 5 


[ sumar | 


Traditions divine, occult, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 living creature touched 
Duration 10 minutes 


You shield a creature from the ravages of negative energy. 
It receives a +4 status bonus to saves against death and 
negative effects, gains negative resistance 10, and suppresses 
the effects of the doomed condition. 


DETECT ALIGNMENT 


| UNCOMMON | DETECTION | DIVINATION | 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot emanation 

Your eyes glow as you sense aligned auras. Choose chaotic, 
evil, good, or lawful. You detect auras of that alignment. You 
receive no information beyond presence or absence. You can 
choose not to detect creatures or effects you're aware have 
that alignment. 

Only creatures of 6th level or higher-unless divine 
spellcasters, undead, or beings from the Outer Sphere—have 
alignment auras. 

Heightened (2nd) You learn each aura's location and strength. 


SPELL 1 


ALIGNMENT AURA 

The strength of an alignment aura depends on the level 
of the creature, item, or spell. The auras of undead, clerics 
and other divine spellcasters with a patron deity, and 
creatures from the Outer Sphere are one step stronger 
than normal (faint instead of none, for example). 


Creature or Spell or 
Item Level Effect Level Aura Strength 
0-5 - None 
6-10 0-3 Faint 
11-15 4-7 Moderate 
16-20 8-9 Powerful 
21+ 10 Overwhelming 


[can J oerecnon | ow ] 


Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot emanation 

You send out a pulse that registers the presence of magic. You 
receive no information beyond the presence or absence of magic. 
You can choose to ignore magic you're fully aware of, such as the 
magic items and ongoing spells of you and your allies. 

You detect illusion magic only if that magic's effect has a lower 
level than the level of your detect magic spell. However, items 
that have an illusion aura but aren't deceptive in appearance 
(such as an invisibility potion) typically are detected normally. 
Heightened (3rd) You learn the school of magic for the highest- 

level effect within range that the spell detects. If multiple 

effects are equally strong, the GM determines which you learn. 
Heightened (Ath) As 3rd level, but you also pinpoint the source of 
the highest-level magic. Like for an imprecise sense, you don't 
learn the exact location, but can narrow down the source to 
within a 5-foot cube (or the nearest if larger than that). 


DETECT POISON SPELL 1 
Traditions divine, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 object or creature 

You detect whether a creature is venomous or poisonous, or if 
an object is poison or has been poisoned. You do not ascertain 
whether the target is poisonous in multiple ways, nor do you 
learn the type or types of poison. Certain substances, like lead 
and alcohol, are poisons and so mask other poisons. 
Heightened (2nd) You learn the number and types of poison. 


DETECT SCRYING SPELL 4 

[uci | rcr own ] 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot emanation 

Duration 1 hour 

By tapping into trace divinatory auras, you detect the presence 

of scrying effects in the area. If detect scrying is higher level 

than a scrying effect, you gain a glimpse of the scrying creature 

and learn its approximate distance and direction. 

Heightened (6th) The duration is until the next time you make 
your daily preparations. 


DIMENSION DOOR 

[ comun ['rasommm ] 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet 

Opening a door that bypasses normal space, you instantly 
transport yourself and any items you're wearing and holding 
from your current space to a clear space within range you can 
see. If this would bring another creature with you—even if you're 
carrying it in an extradimensional container—the spell is lost. 


SPELL 4 


Heightened (5th) The range increases to 1 mile. You don’t need 
to be able to see your destination, as long as you have been 
there in the past and know its relative location and distance 
from you. You are temporarily immune for 1 hour. 


DIMENSIONAL ANCHOR 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 
You interfere with the target’s ability to teleport and 
travel between dimensions. Dimensional anchor attempts 
to counteract any teleportation effect, or any effect that 
would move the target to a different plane. The duration is 
determined by the target's Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The effect’s duration is 1 minute. 

Failure The effect's duration is 10 minutes. 

Critical Failure The effect's duration is 1 hour. 


DIMENSIONAL LOCK 
UNCOMMON |. ABIURATION | 


Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Area 60-foot burst 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 


SPELL 4 


SPELL 7 


Qo 


You create a shimmering barrier that attempts to counteract 
teleportation effects and planar travel into or out of the 
area, including items that allow access to extradimensional 
spaces (such as a bag of holding). Dimensional lock tries 
to counteract any attempt to summon a creature into the 
area but doesn’t stop the creature from departing when the 
summoning ends. 


DINOSAUR FORM 
Traditions primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 
You channel the primal forces of nature to transform into a Large 
animal battle form, specifically that of a powerful and terrifying 
dinosaur. You must have space to expand or the spell is lost. 
When you cast this spell, choose ankylosaurus, brontosaurus, 
deinonychus, stegosaurus, triceratops, or tyrannosaurus. You 
can decide the specific type of animal, but this has no effect 
on the forms Size or statistics. While in this form, you gain the 
animal and dinosaur traits. You can Dismiss the spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 
which battle form you choose: 

* AC - 18 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 

and Speed reduction. 
* 15 temporary Hit Points. 
* Low-light vision and imprecise scent 30 feet. 


SPELL 4 


f > SPELLS | 


7 


pL 


Fes vU 


X 
4 
1 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


Tra 


ine iim (DIM e e T E ^ 
SATHF CORE RULEBOOK ¢ 
i at adh » me EE ed d 


* One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the 
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks 
you can Strike with. You're trained with them. Your 
attack modifier is +16, and your damage bonus is +9. 
These attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of 
the enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed 
attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead. 

* Athletics modifier of +18, unless your own is higher. 

You also gain specific abilities based on the form you choose: 

+ Ankylosaurus Speed 25 feet; Melee *® tail (backswing, 
reach 10 feet), Damage 2d6 bludgeoning; Melee > 
foot, Damage 2d6 bludgeoning. 

e Brontosaurus Speed 25 feet; Melee *$ tail (reach 
15 feet), Damage 2d6 bludgeoning; Melee ‘> foot, 
Damage 2d8 bludgeoning. 

- Deinonychus Speed 40 feet; Melee *9 talon (agile), 
Damage 2d4 piercing plus 1 persistent bleed; Melee > 
jaws, Damage 1d10 piercing. 

+ Stegosaurus Speed 30 feet; Melee *> tail (reach 10 
feet), Damage 2d8 piercing. 

e Triceratops Speed 30 feet; Melee *} horn, Damage 
2d8 piercing, plus 1d6 persistent bleed on a critical hit; 
Melee ‘> foot, Damage 2d6 bludgeoning. 

e Tyrannosaurus Speed 30 feet; Melee *} jaws 
(deadly d12, reach 10 feet), Damage 1d12 piercing; 
Melee *® tail (reach 10 feet), Damage 1d10 bludgeoning. 

Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Huge and your attacks 
have 15-foot reach, or 20-foot reach if they started with 
15-foot reach. You instead gain 20 temporary HP, an attack 
modifier of +18, a damage bonus of +6, double the damage 
dice, and Athletics *21. 

Heightened (7th) Your battle form is Gargantuan and your 
attacks have 20-foot reach, or 25-foot reach if they started 
with 15-foot reach. You instead gain AC = 21 * your level, 25 
temporary HP, an attack modifier of +25, a damage bonus of 
+15, double the damage dice, and Athletics +25. 


DISAPPEARANCE 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 material, somatic 
Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
Duration 10 minutes 

You shroud a creature from others' senses. The target becomes 
undetected, not just to sight but to all senses, allowing the target 
to count as invisible no matter what precise and imprecise senses 
an observer might have. It's still possible for a creature to find 
the target by Seeking, looking for disturbed dust, hearing gaps in 
the sound spectrum, or finding some other way to discover the 
presence of an otherwise-undetectable creature. 


SPELL 8 


SPELL 4 


Cast *}% somatic, verbal 
Duration 10 minutes 


Falsehoods ring in your ears like discordant notes. You gain 
a *4 status bonus to Perception checks when someone Lies. 


DISCERN LOCATION SPELL 8 


| UNCOMMON | DETECTION | DIVINATION 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range unlimited; Targets 1 creature or object 
You learn the name of the target’s exact location (including 
the building, community, and country) and plane of existence. 
You can target a creature only if you've seen it in person, 
have one of its significant belongings, or have a piece of its 
body. To target an object, you must have touched it or have 
a fragment of it. Discern location automatically overcomes 
protections against detection and divination of lower level than 
this spell, even if they would normally have a chance to block it. 


DISINTEGRATE SPELL 6 
Traditions arcane 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature or unattended object 
Saving Throw Fortitude 

You fire a green ray at your target. Make a spell attack. On a 
hit, you deal 12d10 damage, and the target must attempt a 
basic Fortitude save. On a critical hit, treat the save result as 
one degree worse. A creature reduced to O HP is reduced to 
fine powder; its gear remains. 

An object you hit is destroyed (no save), regardless of 
Hardness, unless it's an artifact or similarly hard to destroy. 
A single casting can destroy no more than a 10-foot cube of 
matter. This automatically destroys any force construct, such 
as a wall of force. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d10. 


DISJUNCTION 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 magic item 
Crackling energy disjoins the target. You attempt to counteract 
it (page 458). If you succeed, it's deactivated for 1 week. On a 
critical success, it's destroyed. If it's an artifact or similar item, 
you automatically fail. 


DISPEL MAGIC 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 spell effect or unattended magic item 
You unravel the magic behind a spell or effect. Attempt 
a counteract check against the target (page 458). If you 
successfully counteract a magic item, the item becomes a 
mundane item of its type for 10 minutes. This doesn't change 
the item's non-magical properties. If the target is an artifact or 
similar item, you automatically fail. 


SPELL 9 


SPELL 2 


DISRUPT UNDEAD 

Traditions divine, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 undead creature 
Saving Throw Fortitude 

You lance the target with energy. You deal 1d6 positive 
damage plus your spellcasting ability modifier. The target 
must attempt a basic Fortitude save. If the creature critically 
fails the save, it is also enfeebled 1 for 1 round. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6. 


DISRUPTING WEAPONS 


NECROMANCY | POSITIVE | 

Traditions divine 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets up to two weapons, each of which must 
be wielded by you or a willing ally, or else unattended 

Duration 1 minute 

You infuse weapons with positive energy. Attacks with these 

weapons deal an extra 1d4 positive damage to undead. 


CANTRIP 1 


SPELL 1 


You utter a potent litany from your faith, a mandate that 

harms those who oppose your ideals. Choose an alignment 

your deity has (chaotic, evil, good, or lawful). You can't 
cast this spell if you don't have a deity or your deity is true 
neutral. This spell gains the trait of the alignment you chose. 

You deal 7d10 damage to creatures in the area; each creature 

must attempt a Fortitude save. Creatures with an alignment 

that matches the one you chose are unaffected by the spell. 

Those that neither match nor oppose it treat the result of 

their saving throw as one degree better and don't suffer 

effects other than damage. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage and is enfeebled 2 for 
1 minute. 

Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is 
enfeebled 2 for 1 minute. On your home plane, a creature 
that critically fails is banished with the effect of a failed 
banishment save. A 10th-level creature or lower must 
attempt a Will save. On a failure, it's paralyzed for 1 minute; 
on a critical failure, it dies. 


Heightened (3rd) The damage increases to 2d4 damage. 
Heightened (5th) Target up to three weapons, and the damage 
increases to 3d4 damage. 


DIVINE AURA SPELL 8 


Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10, and the level 
of creatures that must attempt a second save on a critical 
failure increases by 2. 


DIVINE INSPIRATION SPELL 8 


Traditions divine 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 10-foot emanation; Targets allies in the area 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

Divine power wards the targets, granting each a +1 status 
bonus to AC and saves while in the area. 

Choose an alignment your deity has (chaotic, evil, good, or 
lawful). You can't cast this spell if you don't have a deity or your 
deity is true neutral. This spell gains the trait of the alignment 
you chose. The bonuses granted by the spell increase to *2 
against attacks by—and effects created by—creatures with an 
alignment opposite to the spell (lawful if you chose chaotic, 
evil if you chose good). These bonuses increase to *4 against 
effects created by such creatures that attempt to impose the 
controlled condition on a target of your divine aura, as well 
as against attacks made by creatures summoned by anything 
opposite in alignment to your divine aura. 

When a creature of opposite alignment hits a target with a 
melee attack, the creature must succeed at a Will save or be 
blinded for 1 minute. It's then temporarily immune for 1 minute. 

The first time you Sustain the Spell each round, the divine 
aura's radius grows 10 feet. 


DIVINE DECREE 

Traditions divine 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 40 feet; Area 40-foot emanation 
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies 


SPELL 7 


| ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL 

Traditions divine 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 

You infuse a target with spiritual energy, refreshing its magic. 
If it prepares spells, it recovers one 6th-level or lower spell 
it previously cast today and can cast that spell again. If it 
spontaneously casts spells, it recovers one of its 6th-level or 
lower spell slots. If it has a focus pool, it regains its Focus 
Points, as if it had Refocused. 


DIVINE LANCE 

Traditions divine 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
You unleash a beam of divine energy. Choose an alignment your 
deity has (chaotic, evil, good, or lawful). You can't cast this spell 
if you don't have a deity or if your deity is true neutral. Make 
a ranged spell attack roll against the target's AC. On a hit, the 
target takes damage of the chosen alignment type equal to 1d4 
* your spellcasting ability modifier (double damage on a critical 
hit). The spell gains the trait of the alignment you chose. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4. 


DIVINE VESSEL 


CANTRIP 1 


SPELL 7 


l | TRANSMUTATION | 
Traditions divine 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 


EQUIPMENT 
MENT, ^c, 
| SPELLS 
Eo 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


" 


- vem PRIN e a e mains 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK : 


You accept otherworldly energies into your body; while you 
are still recognizably yourself, you gain the features of one 
of your deity's servitors. Choose an alignment your deity has 
(chaotic, evil, good, or lawful). You can't cast this spell if you 
don't have a deity or your deity is true neutral. This spell gains 
the trait of the alignment you chose. 

If you were Medium or smaller, you become Large, as the 
effects of enlarge. You must have space to expand into, or the 
spell is lost. You also gain the following benefits. 

* 40 temporary Hit Points. 

* Afly Speed equal to your Speed. 

* Weakness 10 to the alignment opposite the one 

you chose. 

* A +1 status bonus to saves against spells. 

* Darkvision. 

* Your unarmed attacks and weapons deal 1 additional 

damage of the chosen alignment type. 

* One or more unarmed melee attacks. If you chose good 

or lawful, your fist attacks deal 2d8 damage. If you 
chose chaotic, you gain a bite unarmed attack that 
deals 2d10 piercing damage. If you chose evil, you 
gain a claws unarmed attack that deals 2d8 slashing 
damage and has the agile and finesse traits. 
Heightened (9th) The temporary Hit Points increase to 60, 
the weakness increases to 15, and the duration increases 
to 10 minutes. 


SPELL 4 


DIVINE WRATH 


Traditions divine 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

You can channel the fury of your deity against foes of opposed 

alignment. Choose an alignment your deity has (chaotic, evil, 

good, or lawful). You can’t cast this spell if you don't have a 

deity or your deity is true neutral. This spell gains the trait 

of the alignment you chose. You deal 4d10 damage of the 

alignment you chose; each creature in the area must attempt a 

Fortitude save. Creatures that match the alignment you chose 

are unaffected. Those that neither match nor oppose it treat 

the result of their saving throw as one degree better. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened 1. 

Critical Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened 
2; while it is sickened, it is also slowed 1. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10. 


DOMINATE 

UNCOMMON | ENCHANTMENT | INCAPACITATION | MENTAL | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration until the next time you make 
your daily preparations 


SPELL 6 


You take command of the target, forcing it to obey your orders. 
If you issue an obviously self-destructive order, the target 
doesn't act until you issue a new order. The effect depends 
on its Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is stunned 1 as it fights off your commands. 

Failure You control the target. It gains the controlled condition, 
but it can attempt a Will save at the end of each of its turns. 
On a success, the spell ends. 

Critical Failure As a failure, but the target receives a new save 
only if you give it a new order that is against its nature, 
such as killing its allies. 

Heightened (10th) The duration is unlimited. 


DRAGON FORM 


SPELL 6 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

Calling upon powerful transformative magic, you gain a Large 
dragon battle form. You must have space to expand or the spell 
is lost. When you cast this spell, choose one type of chromatic 
or metallic dragon. While in this form, you gain the dragon trait. 
You have hands in this battle form and can take manipulate 
actions. You can Dismiss the spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 

which battle form you choose: 

* AC - 18 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

* 10 temporary Hit Points. 

* Speed 40 feet, fly Speed 100 feet. 

* Resistance 10 against the damage type of your breath 
weapon (see below). 

* Darkvision and imprecise scent 60 feet. 

* One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the battle 
form you choose, which are the only attacks you can Strike 
with. You're trained with them. Your attack modifier is +22, 
and your damage bonus is +6. These attacks are Strength 
based (for the purpose of the enfeebled condition, for 
example). If your unarmed attack modifier is higher, you 
can use it instead. See below for more on these attacks. 

e Athletics modifier of +23, unless your own modifier 
is higher. 

+ Breath Weapon *® (arcane, evocation) The shape, 
damage, and damage type of your breath weapon 
depend on your specific dragon form (see below). A 
creature in the area attempts a basic save against 
your spell DC. This is a Reflex save unless stated 
otherwise in the special ability description for your 
specific dragon form. Once activated, your breath 
weapon can't be used again for 1d4 rounds. Your 
breath weapon has the trait corresponding to the 
type of damage it deals. 

You also gain specific abilities based on the type of dragon: 

- Black swim Speed 60 feet; Melee *$ jaws, Damage 2d12 
piercing plus 2d6 acid; Melee +> claw (agile), Damage 


3d10 slashing; Melee + tail (reach 10 feet), Damage 310 
bludgeoning; Melee *} horns (reach 10 feet), Damage 
3d8 piercing; breath weapon 60-foot line, 11d6 acid. 

+ Blue burrow Speed 20 feet; Melee *} jaws, Damage 
2d10 piercing plus 1d12 electricity; Melee *$ claw 
(agile Damage 3d10 slashing; Melee *> tail (reach 
10 feet), Damage 3d10 bludgeoning; Melee * horns 
(reach 10 feet), Damage 3d8 piercing; breath weapon 
80-foot line, 6d12 electricity. 

* Green swim Speed 40 feet, ignores difficult terrain 
from non-magical foliage; Melee *® jaws, Damage 
2d12 piercing plus 2d6 poison; Melee *> claw (agile), 
Damage 3d10 slashing; Melee * tail (reach 10 feet), 
Damage 3d10 bludgeoning; Melee *$ horns (reach 10 
feet), Damage 3d8 piercing; breath weapon 30-foot 
cone, 10d6 poison (Fortitude save instead of Reflex). 

+ Red ignore concealed from smoke; Melee *$ jaws, Damage 
2d12 piercing plus 2d6 fire; Melee * claw (agile), Damage 
4d6 slashing; Melee * tail (reach 10 feet), Damage 3d10 
bludgeoning; Melee *® wing (reach 10 feet), Damage 3d8 
bludgeoning; breath weapon 30-foot cone, 10d6 fire. 

e White climb Speed 25 feet on ice only; Melee *> jaws, 
Damage 3d6 piercing plus 2d6 cold; Melee *$ claw 
(agile), Damage 3d10 slashing; Melee *9 tail (reach 
10 feet), Damage 3d10 bludgeoning; breath weapon 
30-foot cone, 10d6 cold. 

e Brass burrow Speed 20 feet; Melee *$ jaws, Damage 
3d8 piercing plus 2d4 fire; Melee * claw (agile), 3d10 
slashing; Melee *> tail (reach 10 feet), Damage 3d10 
bludgeoning; Melee *> spikes (reach 10 feet), Damage 
3d8 piercing; breath weapon 60-foot line, 15d4 fire. 

+ Bronze swim Speed 40 feet; Melee *9 jaws, Damage 
2d10 piercing plus 1d12 electricity; Melee *® claw 
(agile), Damage 3d10 slashing; Melee *$ tail (reach 
10 feet), Damage 3d10 bludgeoning; Melee * wing 
(reach 10 feet), Damage 3d8 slashing; breath weapon 
80-foot line, 6d12 electricity. 

e Copper climb Speed 25 feet on stone only; Melee +> 
jaws, Damage 2d12 piercing plus 2d6 acid; Melee 
+> claw (agile), Damage 3d10 slashing; Melee 9 tail 
(reach 10 feet), Damage 3d10 bludgeoning; Melee > 
wing (reach 10 feet), Damage 3d8 bludgeoning; breath 
weapon 60-foot line, 10d6 acid. 

* Gold swim Speed 40 feet; Melee *> jaws, Damage 2d12 
piercing plus 2d6 fire; Melee *9 claw (agile), Damage 
Ad6 slashing; Melee ¢ tail (reach 10 feet), Damage 3d10 
bludgeoning; Melee *$ horns (reach 10 feet), Damage 
3d8 piercing; breath weapon 30-foot cone, 6d10 fire. 

e Silver cloud walk; Melee *9 jaws, Damage 2d12 
piercing plus 2d6 cold; Melee «> claw (agile), Damage 
3d10 slashing; Melee *$ tail (reach 10), Damage 3d10 
bludgeoning; breath weapon 30-foot cone, 8d8 cold. 

Heightened (8th) Your battle form is Huge, you gain a *20-foot 
status bonus to your fly Speed, and your attacks have 10-foot 
reach (or 15-foot reach if they previously had 10-foot reach). 

You instead gain AC = 21 + your level, 15 temporary HP, an 


attack modifier of +28, a damage bonus of +12, Athletics +28, 
and a +14 status bonus to breath weapon damage. 


DREAM COUNCIL 

f menar | sieer f 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal) 

Range planetary; Targets up to 12 creatures you know by 
name and have met in person 

Duration 1 hour 

When you Cast this Spell, any targets—including you—can choose 

to immediately fall asleep. The spell ends for any creatures that 

don't choose to fall asleep. Sleepers join a shared dream, where 

they can communicate with one another as though they were in 

the same room. Individual targets leave this shared dream upon 

awakening, and if all the targets awaken, the spell ends. 


DREAM MESSAGE SPELL 3 
ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal) 

Range planetary; Targets 1 creature you know by name and 
have met in person 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 

You send a message to your target's dream. The message is 

one-way, up to 1 minute of speech (roughly 150 words). If 

the target is asleep, they receive the message instantly. If 

not, they receive it the next time they sleep. As soon as they 

receive it, the spell ends, and you know the message was sent. 

Heightened (4th) You can target up to 10 creatures you 
know by name and have met in person. You must send 
the same message to all of them; the spell ends for each 
creature individually. 


DREAMING POTENTIAL 


ENCHANTMENT | weüra | 
Traditions occult 
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing sleeping creature 

Duration 8 hours 

You draw the target into a lucid dream where it can explore 
the endless possibilities of its own potential within the ever- 
changing backdrop of its dreamscape. If it sleeps the full 8 hours 
uninterrupted, when it wakes, it counts as having spent a day 
of downtime retraining, though it can't use dreaming potential 
for any retraining that would require either an instructor or 
specialized knowledge it can't access within the dream. 


DROP DEAD SPELL 5 

Traditions arcane, divine 

Cast 2 somatic; Trigger A creature within range is hit by an 
attack from an enemy. 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

The target appears to fall down dead, though it actually turns 


SPELL 8 


SPELL 5 


EQUIPMENT 
a 2,0.’ 
SPELLS 
NOP 
- THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


Pa 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


ine iim (DIM e e T = ^ 
SATHF CORE RULEBOOK 4j 
Alis iai toi in os la - E EE ed | 


invisible. Its illusory corpse remains where it fell, complete with 
a believable fatal wound. This illusion looks and feels like a 
dead body. If the target's death seems absurd-for instance, a 
barbarian at full health appears to be slain by 2 damage-the 
GM can grant the attacker an immediate Perception check to 
disbelieve the illusion. If the target uses hostile actions, the 
spell ends. This ends the entire spell, so the illusory corpse 
disappears too. 

Heightened (7th) The spell doesn't end if the target uses 

hostile actions. 


DUPLICATE FOE 


| CONJURATION | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 enemy of level 15 or lower 

Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
You try to create a temporary duplicate of an enemy to fight 
on your behalf. The target can attempt a Fortitude save to 
disrupt the spell. The duplicate appears in an unoccupied space 
adjacent to the target and has the target's attack modifier, AC, 
saving throw modifiers, Perception, and skill modifiers, but it 
has only 70 Hit Points and lacks the target's special abilities, 
including immunities, resistances, and weaknesses. It has no 
magic items except weapon potency runes. 

The duplicate gains the minion trait, and it can only Stride 
and Strike. Its Strikes deal the target’s normal damage but 
don't apply added effects, since it doesn't have special abilities. 
The spell automatically ends if the duplicates Hit Points drop 
to 0. 

The duplicate attacks your enemies to the best of its 
abilities. You can also try to give it additional instructions; 
when you Sustain the Spell, you can also Command a Minion 
as part of your action, but the GM determines whether the 
duplicate follows your command. 

The duplicate is unstable, so each turn after it takes its 
actions, it loses 4d6 Hit Points. It's not a living creature, and it 
can never regain its lost Hit Points in any way. 

Critical Success You fail to create a duplicate. 

Success The duplicate deals half damage with its Strikes and 
the duration is reduced to a maximum of 2 rounds. 

Failure The duplicate works as described. 


SPELL 7 


Heightened (+1) The level of creature you can target increases 
by 2. The duplicate has 10 more HP. 


EARTHBIND SPELL 3 


TRANSMUTATION 


Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 flying creature 
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies 


Using the weight of earth, you hamper a target's flight, with 
effects based on its Fortitude save. If the creature reaches the 
ground safely, it doesnt take falling damage. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target falls safely up to 120 feet. 


Failure The target falls safely up to 120 feet. If it hits the ground, 
it cant Fly, levitate, or otherwise leave the ground for 1 round. 

Critical Failure The target falls safely up to 120 feet. If it hits 
the ground, it cant Fly, levitate, or otherwise leave the 
ground for 1 minute. 


EARTHQUAKE 
EDIE 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst 
Duration 1 round 

You shake the ground, topple creatures into fissures, and 
collapse structures. 

The GM might add additional effects in certain areas. Cliffs 
might collapse, causing creatures to fall, or a lake might drain as 
fissures open up below its surface, leaving a morass of quicksand. 

* Shaking Ground The ground is difficult terrain, and 
creatures on it take a -2 circumstance penalty to attack 
rolls, AC, and skill checks. 

* Fissures Each creature on the ground must attempt a 
Reflex save at the start of its turn to keep its footing 
and avoid falling into 40-foot-deep fissures that open 
beneath it. The fissures are permanent, and their sides 
require successful DC 15 Athletics checks to Climb. 

* Collapse Structures and ceilings might collapse. The 
GM rolls a flat check for each (DC 16 for a sturdy 
structure, DC 14 for an average structure and most 
natural formations, DC 9 for a shoddy structure, all 
adjusted higher or lower as the GM sees fit). A collapse 
deals 11d6 bludgeoning damage; each creature caught 
in a collapse must attempt a Reflex save to avoid it. 

Critical Success The creature takes half the collapse damage. 

Success The creature takes half the collapse damage and 
falls prone. 

Failure The creature takes the full collapse damage and 
falls prone. 

Critical Failure The creature takes the full collapse damage 
and falls into a fissure. 

Heightened (10th) You create a massive earthquake that can 
devastate a settlement. The range increases to half a mile 
and the area to a quarter-mile burst. 


SPELL 8 


SPELL 7 


ECLIPSE BURST 


COLD Í DARKNESS | NECROMANCY 


NEGATIVE | 
Traditions arcane, divine, primal 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst 
Saving Throw Reflex 


A globe of freezing darkness explodes in the area, dealing 
8d10 cold damage to creatures in the area, plus 8d4 additional 
negative damage to living creatures. Each creature in the area 
must attempt a Reflex save. 

If the globe overlaps with an area of magical light or affects 
a creature affected by magical light, eclipse burst attempts to 
counteract the light effect. 


Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage. 

Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and 
becomes blinded by the darkness for an unlimited 
duration. 

Heightened (+1) The cold damage increases by 1d10 and the 
negative damage against the living increases by 1d4. 


ELECTRIC ARC CANTRIP 1 
| CANTRIP | ELECTRICITY | Evocation | 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 or 2 creatures 

Saving Throw basic Reflex 

An arc of lightning leaps from one target to another. You 
deal electricity damage equal to 1d4 plus your spellcasting 
ability modifier. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4. 


ELEMENTAL FORM - 


| POLYMORPH | TRANSMUTATION 


SPELL 5 


Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *}% somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 


You call upon the power of the planes to transform into a 
Medium elemental battle form. When you cast this spell, 
choose air, earth, fire, or water. While in this form, you gain 
the corresponding trait and the elemental trait. You have 
hands in this battle form and can take manipulate actions. 
You can Dismiss the spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 

which battle form you choose: 

* AC - 19 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

* 10 temporary Hit Points. 

* Darkvision. 

* One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the 
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks you 
can Strike with. You're trained with them. Your attack 
modifier is +18, and your damage bonus is +9. These 
are Dexterity based (air or fire) or Strength based 
(earth or water). If your corresponding unarmed attack 
modifier is higher, you can use it instead. 

e Acrobatics (air or fire) or Athletics (earth or water) 
modifier of +20; ignore this change if your own 
modifier is higher. 

You also gain specific abilities based on the type of 

elemental you choose: 

* Air fly Speed 80 feet, movement doesn't trigger 
reactions; Melee * gust, Damage 1d4 bludgeoning. 

e Earth Speed 20 feet, burrow Speed 20 feet; Melee > 
fist, Damage 2d10 bludgeoning. 

* Fire Speed 50 feet; fire resistance 10, weakness 5 to 
cold and 5 to water; Melee *$ tendril, Damage 1d8 fire 
plus 1d4 persistent fire. 


* Water Speed 20 feet, swim Speed 60 feet; fire 
resistance 5; Melee “> wave, Damage 1d12 
bludgeoning, and you can spend an action immediately 
after a hit to push the target 5 feet with the effects of 
a successful Shove. 

Heightened (6th) Your battle form is Large and your attacks 
have 10-foot reach. You must have space to expand or 
the spell is lost. You instead gain AC = 22 + your level, 
15 temporary HP, an attack modifier of +23, a damage 
bonus of +13, and Acrobatics or Athletics +23. 

Heightened (7th) Your battle form is Huge and your attacks 
have 15-foot reach. You must have space to expand or 
the spell is lost. You instead gain AC = 22 + your level, 
20 temporary HP, an attack modifier of +25, a damage 
bonus of +11, double the number of damage dice (including 
persistent damage), and Acrobatics or Athletics +25. 


ENDURE ELEMENTS SPELL 2 

Traditions arcane, divine, primal 

Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 

You shield the target against dangerous temperatures. 

Choose severe cold or heat. The target is protected from the 

temperature you chose (but not extreme cold or heat). 

Heightened (3rd) The target is protected from severe cold 
and heat. 

Heightened (5th) The target is protected from severe cold, 
severe heat, extreme cold, and extreme heat. 


SPELL 7 


Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You protect the target with a powerful, long-lasting energy 
barrier. The target gains resistance 5 to acid, cold, electricity, 
fire, force, negative, positive, and sonic damage. 

Heightened (9th) The resistances increase to 10. 


ENHANCE VICTUALS 

Traditions divine, primal 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets up to 1 gallon of non-magical water or up 
to 5 pounds of food 

Duration 1 hour 

You transform the target into delicious fare, changing water 

into wine or another fine beverage or enhancing the food's 

taste and ingredients to make it a gourmet treat. 

Prior to the transformation, the spell attempts to counteract 
any poisons in the food or water. The food turns back to 
normal if not consumed before the duration expires, though 
any poisons that were counteracted are still gone. 


SPELL 2 


EQUIPMENT 
Em 
C9 
HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
.. BAME 


eI eee (stie — ue = ^ 
|: THFIND CORE RULEBOOK ¢ 
ES E sinnir aar oe eel 


Heightened (+1) The number of gallons of water you can target 
increases by 1, or the number of pounds of food you can 
target increases by 5. 


ENLARGE 

mm 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 5 minutes 

Bolstered by magical power, the target grows to size Large. Its 
equipment grows with it but returns to natural size if removed. 
The creature is clumsy 1. Its reach increases by 5 feet (or by 10 
feet if it started out Tiny), and it gains a *2 status bonus to melee 
damage. This spell has no effect on a Large or larger creature. 


SPELL 2 


Failure The target is fascinated with you. It can attempt another 
Will save if it witnesses actions or speech with which it 
disagrees. If it succeeds, it's no longer fascinated and is 
temporarily immune for 1 hour. If the target is subject to a 
hostile act, or if another creature succeeds at a Diplomacy 
or Intimidation check against it, the fascination ends 
immediately. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the target can't attempt a save 
to end the fascination if it disagrees with you. 


ETHEREAL JAUNT 
[wenn commos [recon ] 


Traditions divine, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 


Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


SPELL 7 


Heightened (Ath) The creature instead grows to size Huge. The 
status bonus to melee damage is *4 and the creature's reach 
increases by 10 feet (or 15 feet if the creature started out 
Tiny). The spell has no effect on a Huge or larger creature. 

Heightened (6th) Choose either the 2nd-level or 4th-level version 
of this spell and apply its effects to up to 10 willing creatures. 


ENTANGLE SPELL 2 

[nur [mum ] 

Traditions primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Area all squares in a 20-foot burst that 
contain plants or fungi 

Duration 1 minute 

Plants and fungi entangle creatures. The area is difficult 

terrain. Each round that a creature starts its turn in the area, 

it must attempt a Reflex save. On a failure, it takes a -10-foot 

circumstance penalty to its Speeds until it leaves the area, and 

on a critical failure, it is also immobilized for 1 round. Creatures 

can attempt to Escape at entangle's DC to remove these effects. 


SPELL 3 


ENTHRALL 

| auoitory f EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | 
Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets all creatures in range 

Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained 

Your words fascinate your targets. You speak or sing without 
interruption throughout the casting and duration. Targets 
who notice your speech or song might give their undivided 
attention; each target must attempt a Will save. The GM might 
grant a circumstance bonus (to a maximum of +4) if the target 
is of an opposing religion, ancestry, or political leaning, or is 
otherwise unlikely to agree with what you're saying. 

Each creature that comes within range has to attempt a 
save when you Sustain the Spell. If you're speaking, enthrall 
gains the linguistic trait. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected and notices that you 
tried to use magic. 

Success The target needn't pay attention but doesn't notice 
you tried to use magic (it might notice others are enthralled). 


You travel to the Ethereal Plane, which overlaps the Material 
Plane. Material Plane creatures can't see you, and you can move 
through things on the Material Plane. You move at half your 
normal Speeds, but can move in any direction (including up and 
down). You can see onto the Material Plane within a radius of 
60 feet; it is gray, hazy, and concealed from you. You can't affect 
the Material Plane, and you can't be affected by the Material 
Plane except by force effects and abjurations originating there. 

When the spell ends, you return to the Material Plane. If 
you're in the air, you fall (unless you can fly), and if you're 
inside an object, you're pushed into the nearest open space 
and take 1d6 damage per 5 feet you were pushed. 

If you cast this spell when not on the Material Plane, it is lost. 
Heightened (9th) You can target up to five additional willing 

creatures within 30 feet. The duration is up to 10 minutes. 


FABRICATED TRUTH SPELL 10 
EX wins [wea] 
Traditions occult 
Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 100 feet; Targets up to 5 creatures 
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 
Choose a single statement you want the targets to believe. The 
fact could be narrow, such as "a dragon is circling overhead 
and wants to kill me"; wide-reaching, such as "all humanoids 
are disguised abominations"; or conceptual, such as "if | don't 
live a kinder life, I'll be punished in the afterlife.” The targets’ 
experiences color how they react to this "truth" and how 
their behavior changes. If the statement changes what they 
perceive, they treat the change as a sudden revelation. 
The effect of the spell depends on the targets' Will saves. If 
a target is already subject to fabricated truth, your spell tries 
to counteract it. If the counteract check fails, the outcome of 
the target's saving throw can't be worse than a success. 
Critical Success The target doesn't believe the statement, and 
it knows you tried to trick it. 
Success The target doesnt believe the statement or realize 
you tried to trick it. 
Failure The target believes the statement for a duration of 1 week. 
Critical Failure The target believes the statement with 
unlimited duration. 


FAERIE FIRE 

| Evocation | LIGHT | 

Traditions divine, occult, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst 
Duration 5 minutes 

All creatures in the area when you cast the spell are limned 
in colorful, heatless fire of a color of your choice for the 
duration. Visible creatures can't be concealed while affected 
by faerie fire. If the creatures are invisible, they are concealed 
while affected by faerie fire, rather than being undetected. 


FALSE LIFE SPELL 2 
Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 8 hours 

You create a reservoir of vitality from necromantic energy, 
gaining a number of temporary Hit Points equal to 6 plus your 
spellcasting ability modifier. 

Heightened (+1) The temporary Hit Points increase by 3. 


FALSE VISION SPELL5 
Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Area 100-foot burst 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You create a false image that fools any attempts to scry on 
an area. Any scrying spell sees, hears, smells, and otherwise 
detects whatever you wish within the area, rather than what 
is actually in the area. You can Sustain the Spell each round 
to change the illusion as you desire, including playing out a 
complex scene. If the scrying spell is of a higher level than 
false vision, the scryer can attempt a Perception check to 
disbelieve the illusion, though even if they’re successful, 
they cant learn what's truly going on in the area. 


FEAR 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 1 


Range 60 feet; Targets 1 falling creature 
Duration 1 minute 


You cause the air itself to arrest a fall. The target's fall slows to 
60 feet per round, and the portion of the fall during the spell's 
duration doesn't count when calculating falling damage. If the 
target reaches the ground while the spell is in effect, it takes no 
damage from the fall. The spell ends as soon as the target lands. 


FEEBLEMIND SPELL 6 


[ curse | enchanrmenr | ncaracrrarion | MENTAL | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 

You drastically reduce the target's mental faculties. The target 

must attempt a Will save. The effects of this curse can be removed 

only through remove curse or another effect that targets curses. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is stupefied 2 for 1 round. 

Failure The target is stupefied 4 with an unlimited duration. 

Critical Failure The target's intellect is permanently reduced 
below that of an animal, and it treats its Charisma, Intelligence, 
and Wisdom modifiers as -5. It loses all class abilities that 
require mental faculties, including all spellcasting. If the 
target is a PC, they become an NPC under the GM's control. 


FEET TO FINS SPELL 3 


TRANSMUTATION 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 10 minutes 
The target's feet transform into fins, improving mobility in the 
water but reducing it on land. The target gains a swim Speed 
equal to its normal land Speed, but its land Speed becomes 5 feet. 
Heightened (6th) The spell lasts until the next time you make 

your daily preparations. 


FIELD OF LIFE 


SPELL 6 


| EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT EI 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 


HEALING | NECROMANCY 
Traditions divine, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Area 20-foot burst 


Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


y E 


You plant fear in the target; it must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is frightened 1. 

Failure The target is frightened 2. 

Critical Failure The target is frightened 3 and fleeing for 1 
round. 

Heightened (3rd) You can target up to five creatures. 


FEATHER FALL 

| ABJURATION | 

Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast 2 verbal; Trigger A creature within range is falling. 


SPELL 1 


A field of positive energy fills the area, exuding warmth and 
rejuvenating those within. Each living creature that starts its 
turn in the area regains 1d8 Hit Points, and any undead creature 
that starts its turn in the area takes 1d8 positive damage. 
Heightened (8th) The healing and damage increase to 1d10. 
Heightened (9th) The healing and damage increase to 1d12. 


FIERY BODY SPELL 7 


FIRE | FIRE | POLYMORPH | TRANSMUTATION | 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 


EQUIPMENT 
id A 
| SPELLS 
Mo 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
x = | GAME 


T^. GAME 
STERING 


You become living flame, giving you fire immunity, 
resistance 10 to precision damage, and weakness 5 to cold 
and to water. Any creature that touches you or damages 
you with an unarmed attack or non-reach melee weapon 
takes 3d6 fire damage. 

Your unarmed attacks deal 1d4 additional fire damage, and 
your fire spells deal one additional die of fire damage (of the 
same damage die the spell uses). You can cast produce flame 
as an innate spell; the casting is reduced from 2 actions to 1. 

In fire form, you have a fly Speed of 40 feet and don't need 
to breathe. 

Heightened (9th) Creatures touching you take 4d6 fire damage 
instead of 3d6, your unarmed attacks deal 2d4 additional 
fire damage, and you have a fly Speed of 60 feet. 


FINGER OF DEATH 
[ neam | wecromancy | 
Traditions divine, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature 

Saving Throw basic Fortitude 

You point your finger toward the target and speak a word 
of slaying. You deal 70 negative damage to the target. If the 
damage from finger of death reduces the target to O Hit Points, 
the target dies instantly. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 10. 


FIRE SEEDS 
| EVOCATION | FIRE | PLANT | 
Traditions primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Saving Throw basic Reflex; Duration 1 minute 
Four acorns grow in your hand, their shells streaked with 
pulsing red and orange patterns. You or anyone else who has 
one of the acorns can toss it up to 30 feet with an Interact 
action. It explodes in a 5-foot burst, dealing 4d6 fire damage. 
The save uses your spell DC, even if someone else throws 
the acorn. 
Flames continue to burn on the ground in the burst for 
1 minute, dealing 2d6 fire damage to any creature that 
enters the flames or ends its turn within them. A creature 
can take damage from the continuing flames only once per 
round, even if it's in overlapping areas of fire created by 
different acorns. 
When the spell ends, any remaining acorns rot and turn to 
ordinary soil. 
Heightened (8th) The burst's damage increases to 5d6, and 
the continuing flames damage increases to 3d6. 
Heightened (8th) The burst's damage increases to 6d6, and 
the continuing flames damage increases to 3d6. 


FIRE SHIELD 

EVOCATION | FIRE | 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *}% somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 


SPELL 7 


SPELL 6 


SPELL 4 


You wreathe yourself in ghostly flames, gaining cold 

resistance 5. Additionally, adjacent creatures that hit you 

with a melee attack, as well as creatures that touch you or 

hit you with an unarmed attack, take 2d6 fire damage each 

time they do. 

Heightened (+2) The cold resistance increases by 5, and the 
fire damage increases by 1d6. 


FIREBALL 

[omo T uc] 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Area 20-foot burst 
Saving Throw basic Reflex 

A roaring blast of fire appears at a spot you designate, dealing 
6d6 fire damage. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


FLAME STRIKE 
ECTNES 
Traditions divine 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot radius, 40-foot-tall cylinder 
Saving Throw basic Reflex 

You call a rain of divine fire that plummets down from above, 
dealing 8d6 fire damage. Because the flame is infused with 
divine energy, creatures in the area apply only half their usual 
fire resistance. Creatures that are immune to fire, instead of 
gaining the usual benefit of immunity, treat the results of their 
saving throws as one degree of success better. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


FLAMING SPHERE 
EXTIES 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Area 1 5-foot square 
Saving Throw Reflex; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
You create a sphere of flame in a square within range. The sphere 
must be supported by a solid surface, such as a stone floor. The 
sphere deals 3d6 fire damage to each creature in the square 
where it first appears; each creature must attempt a basic Reflex 
save. On subsequent rounds, the first time you Sustain this Spell 
each round, you can leave the sphere in its square or roll it to 
another square within range. It deals 3d6 fire damage (basic 
Reflex save) to each creature in that square. 

Creatures that succeed at their save take no damage 
(instead of half). 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6. 


FLEET STEP 

emmm 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

You gain a +30-foot status bonus to your Speed. 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 1 


FLESH TO STONE 


SPELL 6 


TRANSMUTATION 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature made of flesh 

Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies 

You try to turn the target's flesh into stone. The target must 

attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is slowed 1 for 1 round. 

Failure The target is slowed 1 and must attempt a Fortitude 
save at the end of each of its turns; this ongoing save 
has the incapacitation trait. On a failed save, the slowed 
condition increases by 1 (or 2 on a critical failure). A 
successful save reduces the slowed condition by 1. When a 
creature is unable to act due to the slowed condition from 
flesh to stone, the creature is permanently non-magically 
petrified. The spell ends if the creature is petrified or the 
slowed condition is removed. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the target is initially slowed 2. 


FLOATING DISK SPELL 1 
| FORCE | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 8 hours 

A disk of magical force materializes adjacent to you. This disk 


\ 


is 2 feet in diameter and follows 5 feet behind you, floating 
just above the ground. It holds up to 5 Bulk of objects (though 
they must be able to fit and balance on its surface). Any 
objects atop the disk fall to the ground when the spell ends. 

The spell ends if a creature tries to ride atop the disk, if 
the disk is overloaded, if anyone tries to lift or force the disk 
higher above the ground, or if you move more than 30 feet 
away from the disk. 


FLY SPELL 4 
Traditions arcane, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 5 minutes 

The target can soar through the air, gaining a fly Speed equal 
to its Speed or 20 feet, whichever is greater. 

Heightened (7th) The duration increases to 1 hour. 


FORBIDDING WARD 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 ally and 1 enemy 
Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You ward an ally against the attacks and hostile spells from 
the target enemy. The target ally gains a +1 status bonus to 


CANTRIP 1 


£ INTRODUCTION 


tS 
i 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


eho). 


e vm (DINE tse E A 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK j 
a a ae -— eel 


Armor Class and saving throws against the target enemy's 
attacks, spells, and other effects. 
Heightened (6th) The status bonus increases to +2. 


FORESIGHT 


SPELL 9 


cast spells, activate items, or use actions that have the attack 
or manipulate trait. It gains a fly Speed of 10 feet and can slip 
through tiny cracks. The target can Dismiss the spell. 


GATE SPELL 10 


Em MENTAL | PREDICTION 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 


Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
Duration 1 hour 


[oxen cnm | reer} 


Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


You gain a sixth sense that warns you of danger that might 
befall the target of the spell. If you choose a creature other 
than yourself as the target, you create a psychic link through 
which you can inform the target of danger. This link is a mental 
effect. Due to the amount of information this spell requires 
you to process, you can't have more than one foresight spell 
in effect at a time. Casting foresight again ends the previous 

foresight. While foresight is in effect, the target gains a *2 

status bonus to initiative rolls and isn't flat-footed against 

undetected creatures or when flanked. In addition, you gain 
the following reaction. 

Foresight 2 Trigger The target of foresight defends against 
a hostile creature or other danger; Effect If the hostile 
creature or danger forces the target to roll dice (a saving 
throw, for example), the target rolls twice and uses the 
higher result, and this spell gains the fortune trait. But if the 
hostile creature or danger is rolling against the target (an 
attack roll or skill check, for example), that hostile creature 
or danger rolls twice and uses the lower result, and this 
spell gains the misfortune trait. 


FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT 


Í ABJURATION | 

Traditions arcane, divine, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature touched 

Duration 10 minutes 

You repel effects that would hinder a creature or slow its 
movement. While under this spell's effect, the target ignores 
effects that would give them a circumstance penalty to 
Speed. When they attempt to Escape an effect that has them 
immobilized, grabbed, or restrained, they automatically 
succeed unless the effect is magical and of a higher level 
than the freedom of movement spell. 


GASEOUS FORM 


POLYMORPH | TRANSMUTATION | 
Traditions arcane, occult, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 5 minutes 
The target transforms into a vaporous state. In this state, the 
target is amorphous. It loses any item bonus to AC and all other 
effects and bonuses from armor, and it uses its proficiency 
modifier for unarmored defense. It gains resistance 8 to 
physical damage and is immune to precision damage. It can't 


SPELL 4 


SPELL 4 


You tear open a rift to another plane, creating a portal that 
creatures can travel through in either direction. This portal is 
vertical and circular, with a radius of 40 feet. The portal appears 
at a location of your choice on the destination plane, assuming 
you have a clear idea of both the destination's location on the 
plane and what the destination looks like. If you attempt to 
create a gate into or out of the realm of a deity or another 
powerful being, that being can prevent the gate from forming. 


GENTLE REPOSE SPELL 2 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 corpse 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 

The targeted corpse doesn't decay, nor can it be transformed 

into an undead. If the corpse is subject to a spell that requires 

the corpse to have died within a certain amount of time (for 

example, raise dead), do not count the duration of gentle 

repose against that time. This spell also prevents ordinary 

bugs and pests (such as maggots) from consuming the body. 

Heightened (5th) The spell’s duration is unlimited, but the 
spell takes one more action to cast and requires a material 
component and a cost (embalming fluid worth 6 gp). 


GHOST SOUND CANTRIP 1 
Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained 

You create an auditory illusion of simple sounds that has a 
maximum volume equal to four normal humans shouting. 
The sounds emanate from a square you designate within 
range. You can't create intelligible words or other intricate 
sounds (such as music). 

Heightened (3rd) The range increases to 60 feet. 

Heightened (5th) The range increases to 120 feet. 


GHOSTLY WEAPON 


| TRANSMUTATION | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 weapon that is either unattended or 
wielded by you or a willing ally 

Duration 5 minutes 


SPELL 3 


The target weapon becomes translucent and ghostly, and it can 
affect material and incorporeal creatures and objects. It can be 
wielded by a corporeal or incorporeal creature and gains the 
effects of the ghost touch property rune. If the weapon is magical 
and already has the maximum number of property runes, the 
wielder can choose one to suppress to gain ghost touch. 


GHOULISH CRAVINGS SPELL 2 


DISEASE | | EVIL | | NECROMANCY | 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *}% somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

You touch the target to afflict it with ghoul fever, infesting it 

with hunger and a steadily decreasing connection to positive 

energy; the target must attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is afflicted with ghoul fever at stage 1. 

Failure The target is afflicted with ghoul fever at stage 2. 

Critical Failure The target is afflicted with ghoul fever at stage 3. 

Ghoul Fever (disease) Level 3; Stage 1 carrier with no ill effects (1 
day); Stage 2 3d8 negative damage and the creature regains half 
as many Hit Points from all healing (1 day); Stage 3 as stage 2 
(1 day); Stage 4 3d8 negative damage and the creature gains no 
benefit from healing (1 day); Stage 5 as stage 4 (1 day); Stage 6 
the creature dies and rises as a ghoul at the next midnight 


GLIBNESS SPELL 4 
J UNCOMMON | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL | 

Traditions occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 10 minutes 

Falsehoods pass your lips as smoothly as silk. You gain a +4 status 
bonus to Deception checks to Lie and against Perception checks to 
discern if you are telling the truth, and you add your level even if 
untrained. If the implausibility of your lies prompts a circumstance 
penalty or a DC increase, reduce that penalty or increase by half. 


GLITTERDUST SPELL 2 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst 

Saving Throw Reflex 

Creatures in the area are outlined by glittering dust. Each 

creature must attempt a Reflex save. If a creature has its 

invisibility negated by this spell, it is concealed instead of 

invisible. This applies both if the creature was already invisible 

and if it benefits from new invisibility effects before the end of 

the invisibility negation effect from this spell. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target's invisibility is negated for 2 rounds. 

Failure The target is dazzled for 1 minute and its invisibility is 
negated for 1 minute. 

Critical Failure The target is blinded for 1 round and dazzled 
for 10 minutes. Its invisibility is negated for 10 minutes. 


GLOBE OF INVULNERABILITY 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Area 10-foot burst centered on one corner of your space 
Duration 10 minutes 

You create an immobile globe around yourself that attempts 
to counteract any spell from outside the globe whose area 
or targets enter into the globe, as if the globe were a dispel 
magic spell 1 level lower than its actual spell level. If the 
counteract attempt succeeds, it prevents only the portion 
of the spell that would have entered the globe (so if the 
spell also has targets outside the globe, or part of its area 
is beyond the globe, those targets or that area is affected 
normally). You must form the sphere in an unbroken open 
space, so its edges dont pass through any creatures or 
objects, or the spell is lost (though creatures can enter the 
globe after the spell is cast). 


SPELL 4 


GLYPH OF WARDING 

| ABJURATION | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range touch; Targets 1 container or a 10-foot-by-10-foot area 
Duration unlimited 

You craft a trap by binding a hostile spell into a symbol. While 
Casting this Spell, you also Cast a Spell of a lower spell level 
to store in the glyph. The stored spell must take 3 actions or 
fewer to cast, have a hostile effect, and target one creature 
or have an area. You can set a password, a trigger, or both 
for the glyph. Any creature that moves, opens, or touches the 
target container or enters the target area that doesn't speak 
the password or that matches the trigger activates the glyph, 
releasing the harmful spell within. 

Once a spell is stored in the glyph, the glyph gains all the 
traits of that spell. If the stored spell targets one or more 
creatures, it targets the creature that set off the glyph. If it 
has an area, that area is centered on the creature that set off 
the glyph. Glyph of warding's duration ends when the glyph 
is triggered. The glyph counts as a magical trap, using your 
spell DC for both the Perception check to notice it and the 
Thievery check to disable it; both checks require the creature 
attempting them to be trained in order to succeed. 

You can Dismiss glyph of warding. The maximum number 
of glyphs of warding you can have active at a time is equal to 
your spellcasting ability modifier. 


GOBLIN POX 

f Disease | necromancy | 
Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Fortitude 

Your touch afflicts the target with goblin pox, an irritating 
allergenic rash. The target must attempt a Fortitude save. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected. 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 1 


EQUIPMENT 
Em 
CO 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
.. BAME 


E 


& TREASURE 


ine iim (DIM e e T E ^ 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 4j 
Alis iai ato in mro ai - a E rr a il 


Success The target is sickened 1. 

Failure The target is afflicted with goblin pox at stage 1. 

Critical Failure The target is afflicted with goblin pox at stage 2. 

Goblin Pox (disease) Level 1; Goblins and goblin dogs are 
immune; Stage 1 sickened 1 (1 round); Stage 2 sickened 1 
and slowed 1 (1 round); Stage 3 sickened 1 and the creature 
can't reduce its sickened value below 1 (1 day) 


GREASE SPELL 1 


[wm | 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Area 4 contiguous 5-foot squares or 
Targets 1 object of 1 Bulk or less 

Duration 1 minute 


You conjure grease, with effects based on choosing area or target. 

* Area All solid ground in the area is covered with 
grease. Each creature standing on the greasy surface 
must succeed at a Reflex save or an Acrobatics check 
against your spell DC or fall prone. Creatures using 
an action to move onto the greasy surface during the 
spell's duration must attempt either a Reflex save or an 
Acrobatics check to Balance. A creature that Steps or 
Crawls doesn't have to attempt a check or save. 

e Target If you cast the spell on an unattended object, 
anyone trying to pick up the object must succeed 
at an Acrobatics check or Reflex save against your 
spell DC to do so. If you target an attended object, 
the creature that has the object must attempt an 
Acrobatics check or Reflex save. On a failure, the 
holder or wielder takes a -2 circumstance penalty to 
all checks that involve using the object; on a critical 
failure, the holder or wielder releases the item. The 
object lands in an adjacent square of the GM's choice. 
If you cast this spell on a worn object, the wearer 
gains a *2 circumstance bonus to Fortitude saves 
against attempts to grapple them. 


GRIM TENDRILS SPELL 1 


| necromancy | wecane | 


Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Area 30-foot line 

Saving Throw Fortitude 


Tendrils of darkness curl out from your fingertips and 

race through the air. You deal 2d4 negative damage and 1 

persistent bleed damage to living creatures in the line. Each 

living creature in the line must attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half the negative damage and no 
persistent bleed damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage. 

Critical Failure The creature takes double negative damage 
and double persistent bleed damage. 


Heightened (+1) The negative damage increases by 2d4, and 
the persistent bleed damage increases by 1. 


GUIDANCE 

EXNETTE 

Traditions divine, occult, primal 

Cast + verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Duration until the start of your next turn 
You ask for divine guidance, granting the target a +1 status 
bonus to one attack roll, Perception check, saving throw, or 
skill check the target attempts before the duration ends. The 
target chooses which roll to use the bonus on before rolling. 
If the target uses the bonus, the spell ends. Either way, the 
target is then temporarily immune for 1 hour. 


GUST OF WIND 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 60-foot line 

Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration until the start of your next turn 

A violent wind issues forth from your palm, blowing from the 

point where you are when you cast the spell to the lines opposite 

end. The wind extinguishes small non-magical fires, disperses 

fog and mist, blows objects of light Bulk or less around, and 

pushes larger objects. Large or smaller creatures in the area 

must attempt a Fortitude save. Large or smaller creatures that 

later move into the gust must attempt the save on entering. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature can't move against the wind. 

Failure The creature is knocked prone. If it was flying, it 
suffers the effects of critical failure instead. 

Critical Failure The creature is pushed 30 feet in the wind's 
direction, knocked prone, and takes 2d6 bludgeoning damage. 


HALLUCINATION SPELL 5 


ILLUSION | INCAPACITATION || MENTAL | 
Traditions arcane, occult — 
Cast 99 material, somatic 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 1 hour 

The target consistently detects one thing as another, cant 
detect something that's there, or detects something that's not 
there, though it doesnt alter their beliefs. You choose which 
of these effects applies, and you determine the specifics of the 
hallucination. For example, you could make the target see all elves 
as humans, be unable to detect the presence of their brother, see 
their beloved pocket watch on their person even when it isn't, or 
see a tower in the center of town. 

The target can attempt an initial Will save, with effects below. 
They also receive a Will save to disbelieve the hallucination every 
time they Seek or directly interact with the hallucination. For 
example, the target could attempt to disbelieve the hallucination 
each time they interacted with an elf, bumped into their brother 
accidentally, tried to check their pocket watch, or studied 
the tower. The target can attempt to disbelieve with a large 
circumstance bonus in situations determined by the GM, such as 
if the target attempted to climb the nonexistent tower. 


CANTRIP 1 


SPELL 1 


Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature perceives what you chose until it 
disbelieves, but it knows what the hallucination is. 

Failure The creature perceives what you chose until it disbelieves. 

Critical Failure The creature perceives what you chose until 
it disbelieves, and it trusts its false senses, taking a -4 
circumstance penalty to saves to disbelieve. 

Heightened (6th) Choose to either target up to 10 creatures or 
change the spell's duration to until the next time you make 
your daily preparations. 

Heightened (8th) Choose to either target any number of 
creatures or change the spell's duration to unlimited. 


HALLUCINATORY TERRAIN SPELL 4 
Traditions arcane, occult, primal 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range 500 feet; Area 50-foot burst 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You create an illusion that causes natural terrain to look, 
sound, feel, and smell like a different kind of terrain. This 
doesn't disguise any structures or creatures in the area. 

Any creature that touches the illusion or uses the Seek 
action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your illusion. 
Heightened (5th) Your image can also disguise structures or 

create illusory structures (but still doesn’t disguise creatures). 


HARM SPELL 1 


ES | NEGATIVE 

Traditions divine 

Cast *9 to >>> 

Range varies; Targets 1 
undead creature 

You channel negative energy to harm the living or heal 

the undead. If the target is a living creature, you deal 1d8 

negative damage to it, and it gets a basic Fortitude save. 

If the target is a willing undead creature, you restore that 

amount of Hit Points. The number of actions you spend when 

Casting this Spell determines its targets, range, area, and 

other parameters. 

*9 (somatic) The spell has a range of touch. 

+} (somatic, verbal) The spell has a range of 30 feet. If you're 
healing an undead creature, increase the Hit Points restored 
by 8. 

*99? (material, somatic, verbal) You disperse negative energy 
in a 30-foot emanation. This targets all living and undead 
creatures in the area. 

Heightened (+1) The amount of healing or damage increases 
by 1d8, and the extra healing for the 2-action version 
increases by 8. 


HASTE 

| TRANSMUTATION | 

Traditions arcane, occult, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 


living creature or 1 willing 


SPELL 3 


Duration 1 minute 
Magic empowers the target to act faster. It gains the quickened 
condition and can use the extra action each round only for 
Strike and Stride actions. 

Heightened (7th) You can target up to 6 creatures. 


HEAL 


HEALING | NECROMANCY | POSITIVE 

Traditions divine, primal 

Cast *9 to 99? 

Range varies; Targets 1 willing living creature or 1 undead 
creature 

You channel positive energy to heal the living or damage 

the undead. If the target is a willing living creature, you 

restore 1d8 Hit Points. If the target is undead, you deal 

that amount of positive damage to it, and it gets a basic 

Fortitude save. The number of actions you spend when 

Casting this Spell determines its targets, range, area, and 

other parameters. 

*9 (somatic) The spell has a range of touch. 

+} (somatic, verbal) The spell has a range of 30 feet. If you're 
healing a living creature, increase the Hit Points restored 
by 8. 

>> (material, somatic, verbal) You disperse positive energy 
in a 30-foot emanation. This targets all living and undead 
creatures in the burst. 

Heightened (+1) The amount of healing or damage increases 
by 1d8, and the extra healing for the 2-action version 
increases by 8. 


HEROISM 


ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL 


Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 10 minutes 

You tap into the target's inner heroism, granting it a +1 status 
bonus to attack rolls, Perception checks, saving throws, and 
skill checks. 

Heightened (6th) The status bonus increases to *2. 
Heightened (9th) The status bonus increases to +3. 


HIDEOUS LAUGHTER 


EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained 

The target is overtaken with uncontrollable laughter. It must 

attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is plagued with uncontrollable laugher. It 
cant use reactions. 

Failure The target is slowed 1 and can't use reactions. 

Critical Failure The target falls prone and can't use actions or 
reactions for 1 round. It then suffers the failure effects. 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 2 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
J "we, 


THE AGE OF 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


F . GAME 

| B TREASURE 

^ APPENDI 
Zn 


Tra 


JATHFIN ER ) CORE EUIEBOOK 3 
= — o —————— à 
HOLY CASCADE SPELL 4 


HYDRAULIC PUSH SPELL 1 


| evocation | coon | posirive | water | 


Traditions divine 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal; Cost one vial of holy water (page 571) 

Range 500 feet; Area 20-foot burst 

Saving Throw basic Reflex 

You call upon sacred energy to amplify a vial of holy water, 

tossing it an incredible distance. It explodes in an enormous 

burst that deals 3d6 bludgeoning damage to creatures in the 

area from the cascade of water. The water deals an additional 

6d6 positive damage to undead and 6d6 good damage to fiends. 

Heightened (+1) The bludgeoning damage increases by 1d6, and 
the additional positive and good damage each increase by 2d6. 


HORRID WILTING SPELL 8 


[mor [ evocavon [wa | 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature or unattended object 

You call forth a powerful blast of pressurized water that 

bludgeons the target and knocks it back. Make a ranged spell 

attack roll. 

Critical Success The target takes 6d6 bludgeoning damage 
and is knocked back 10 feet. 

Success The target takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage and is 
knocked back 5 feet. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


HYDRAULIC TORRENT 


SPELL 4 


| necromancy | NEGATIVE f 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Targets any number of living creatures 
Saving Throw basic Fortitude 


[vom T irs | 


Traditions primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Area 60-foot line 

Saving Throw Fortitude 


You pull the moisture from the targets’ bodies, dealing 
10d10 negative damage. Creatures made of water (such as 
water elementals) and plant creatures use the outcome for 
one degree of success worse than the result of their saving 
throw. Creatures whose bodies contain no significant moisture 
(such as earth elementals) are immune to horrid wilting. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10. 


HUMANOID FORM 
mo 


Traditions arcane, occult, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 


Duration 10 minutes 


SPELL 2 


A swirling torrent of water manifests along a straight line, 
battering creatures and unattended objects in its path and 
possibly pushing them away from you. The torrent deals 8d6 
bludgeoning damage. Each creature in the area must attempt 
a basic Fortitude save; unattended objects automatically fail. 
Creatures and objects that fail the save are also knocked back 
5 feet (10 feet on a critical failure). 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


HYPERCOGNITION 


Traditions occult 
Cast 9 verbal 


SPELL 3 


You transform your appearance to that of a Small or Medium 
humanoid, such as a dwarf, elf, goblin, halfling, human, orc, 
or lizardfolk. You gain the humanoid trait in addition to your 
other traits while in this form, as well as any trait related to the 
creature's kind (such as goblin or human). If this transformation 
reduces your size, it reduces your reach accordingly (as the 
shrink spell). This transformation doesn't change your statistics 
in any way, and you dont gain any special abilities of the 
humanoid form you assume. You can still wear and use your 
gear, which changes size (if necessary) to match your new form. 
If items leave your person, they return to their usual size. 
Humanoid form grants you a *4 status bonus to Deception 
checks to pass as a generic member of the chosen ancestry, and 
you add your level even if you're untrained, but you can't make 
yourself look like a specific person. If you want to Impersonate 
an individual, you still need to create a disguise, though the GM 
wont factor in the difference in ancestry when determining the 
DC of your Deception check. You can Dismiss this spell. 
Heightened (3rd) You gain darkvision or low-light vision if the 
form you assume has that ability. 
Heightened (5th) You can take on the appearance of a Large 
humanoid. If this increases your size, you gain the effects 
of the enlarge spell. 


You rapidly catalog and collate information relevant to 
your current situation. You can instantly use up to 6 Recall 
Knowledge actions as part of Casting this Spell. For these 
actions, you can't use any special abilities, reactions, or free 
actions that trigger when you Recall Knowledge. 


HYPNOTIC PATTERN 

| iwusion | visuat | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 material, somatic 

Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst 

Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You create a pattern of shifting colors that hovers in the air 

in a geometric cloud. Creatures are dazzled while inside the 

pattern. In addition, a creature must attempt a Will saving 

throw if it is inside the pattern when you cast it, when it 

enters the pattern, when it ends its turn within the pattern, or 

if it uses a Seek or Interact action on the pattern. A creature 

currently fascinated by the pattern doesn't attempt new saves. 

Success The target is unaffected. 

Failure The target is fascinated by the pattern. 

Critical Failure The target is fascinated by the pattern. While 
it remains fascinated, it can't use reactions. 


SPELL 3 


ILLUSORY CREATURE 


Dn f iuusion f oLractory | visuar f 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet 

Duration sustained 

You create an illusory image of a Large or smaller creature. It 
generates the appropriate sounds, smells, and feels believable 
to the touch. If you and the image are ever farther than 500 
feet apart, the spell ends. 

The image can't speak, but you can use your actions to 
speak through the creature, with the spell disguising your 
voice as appropriate. You might need to attempt a Deception 
or Performance check to mimic the creature, as determined 
by the GM. This is especially likely if you're trying to imitate a 
specific person and engage with someone that person knows. 

In combat, the illusion can use 2 actions per turn, which it 
uses when you Sustain the Spell. It uses your spell attack roll 
for attack rolls and your spell DC for its AC. Its saving throw 
modifiers are equal to your spell DC - 10. It is substantial 
enough that it can flank other creatures. If the image is hit by 
an attack or fails a save, the spell ends. 

The illusion can cause damage by making the target believe 
the illusions attacks are real, but it cannot otherwise directly 
affect the physical world. If the illusory creature hits with a 
Strike, the target takes mental damage equal to 1d4 plus your 
spellcasting ability modifier. This is a mental effect. The illusion's 
Strikes are nonlethal. If the damage doesn't correspond to the 
image of the monster—for example, if an illusory Large dragon 
deals only 5 damage-the GM might allow the target to attempt 
an immediate Perception check to disbelieve the spell. Any 
relevant resistances and weaknesses apply if the target thinks 
they do, as judged by the GM. For example, if the illusion wields 
a warhammer and attacks a creature resistant to bludgeoning 
damage, the creature would take less mental damage. However, 
illusory damage does not deactivate regeneration or trigger 
other effects that require a certain damage type. The GM should 
track illusory damage dealt by the illusion. 

Any creature that touches the image or uses the Seek 
action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your illusion. 
When a creature disbelieves the illusion, it recovers from half 
the damage it had taken from it (if any) and doesn't take any 
further damage from it. 

Heightened (+1) The damage of the image's Strikes increases 
by 1d4, and the maximum size of creature you can create 
increases by one (to a maximum of Gargantuan). 


ILLUSORY DISGUISE 


| ILLUSION f VISUAL | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 hour 

You create an illusion that causes you to appear as another 
creature of the same body shape, and with roughly similar height 
(within 6 inches) and weight (within 50 pounds), as yourself. 
The disguise is typically good enough to hide your identity, 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 1 


but not to impersonate a specific individual. The spell doesn't 
change your voice, scent, or mannerisms. You can change the 
appearance of your clothing and worn items, such as making 
your armor look like a dress. Held items are unaffected, and any 
worn item you remove returns to its true appearance. 

Casting illusory disguise counts as setting up a disguise for 
the Impersonate use of Deception; it ignores any circumstance 
penalties you might take for disguising yourself as a dissimilar 
creature, it gives you a *4 status bonus to Deception checks to 
prevent others from seeing through your disguise, and you add 
your level even if you're untrained. You can Dismiss this spell. 
Heightened (2nd) The spell also disguises your voice and 

scent, and it gains the auditory and olfactory traits. 
Heightened (3rd) You can appear as any creature of the same size, 

even a specific individual. You must have seen an individual to 
take on their appearance. The spell also disguises your voice 
and scent, and it gains the auditory and olfactory traits. 


ILLUSORY OBJECT SPELL 1 


ILLUSION |. visuaL | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Area 20-foot burst 

Duration 10 minutes 

You create an illusory visual image of a stationary object. 
The entire image must fit within the spell's area. The object 
appears to animate naturally, but it doesn't make sounds or 
generate smells. For example, water would appear to pour 
down an illusory waterfall, but it would be silent. 

Any creature that touches the image or uses the Seek action 
to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your illusion. 
Heightened (2nd) Your image makes appropriate sounds, 

generates normal smells, and feels right to the touch. The 

spell gains the auditory and olfactory traits. The duration 
increases to 1 hour. 

Heightened (5th) As the 2nd-level version, but the duration 
is unlimited. 


ILLUSORY SCENE 


SPELL 5 


marma 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal) 
Range 500 feet; Area 30-foot burst 
Duration 1 hour 
You form an imaginary scene that includes up to 10 discrete 
creatures or objects of various sizes, all of which must be 
within the spell's area. These elements generate appropriate 
sounds and smells, and they feel right to the touch. Elements 
of an illusory scene are incapable of speech. Unlike with the 
illusory creature spell, creatures in your scene lack combat 
abilities and statistics. Your scene doesn't include changes to 
the environment around it, though you can place your scene 
within the illusory environment of a hallucinatory terrain spell. 
When you create the scene, you can choose to have it be 
static or follow a program. Though a static scene is stationary, it 
includes basic natural movement. For example, wind blowing on 


| visuat | 


SPELLS 
OF 

HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 


PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK : 


an illusory piece of paper would rustle it. A program can be up to 
1 minute long and repeats when finished. For instance, you could 
create a scene of two orcs fighting each other, and the fight would 
go the same way for each repetition. If you create a loop, the two 
fighters end up in the same place at the start of the scene and at 
the end of it, but you can smooth the program so it's hard to tell 
when the loop ends and begins. Anyone observing the scene for 
more than a few minutes almost always notices it looping. You're 
unable to alter the program after you create the illusion. 

Any creature that touches any part of the image or uses 
the Seek action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your 
illusion. If they interact with a portion of the illusion, they 
disbelieve only that portion. They disbelieve the entire scene 
only on a critical success. 

Heightened (6th) Creatures or objects in your scene can speak. 
You must speak the specific lines for each actor when creating 
your program. The spell disguises your voice for each actor. 

Heightened (8th) As the Gth-level version, and the duration 
is unlimited. 


IMPLOSION SPELL 9 
Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 corporeal creature 

Saving Throw basic Fortitude; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


You crush the target by causing it to collapse in on itself, dealing 
75 damage. The first time each round you Sustain the Spell, you 
must choose a new target to be subject to the same effect; the 
same creature can never be targeted more than once with a 
single casting of this spell. You also can’t affect more than one 
creature per turn with implosion. You cant target a creature that's 
incorporeal, gaseous, or liquid, or otherwise lacking a solid form. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 10. 


INSECT FORM 
Traditions primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 
You envision a simple bug and transform into a Medium animal 
battle form. When you cast this spell, choose ant, beetle, 
centipede, mantis, scorpion, or spider. You can decide the specific 
type of animal (such as such as a ladybug or scarab for beetle), 
but this has no effect on the form's Size or statistics. While in 
this form, you gain the animal trait. You can Dismiss this spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 
which battle form you choose: 

* AC - 18 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 

and Speed reduction. 
* 10 temporary Hit Points. 
* Low-light vision. 


SPELL 3 


* One or more attacks specific to the battle form you 
choose, which are the only attacks you can Strike with. 
You're trained with them. Your attack modifier is +13, and 
your damage bonus is +2. These attacks are Strength 
based (for the purpose of the enfeebled condition). If your 
unarmed attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead. 

e Athletics modifier of +13, unless your own is higher. 

You also gain specific abilities based on the form you choose: 

e Ant Speed 30 feet, climb Speed 30 feet; Melee > 
mandibles, Damage 2d6 bludgeoning. 

- Beetle Speed 25 feet; Melee * mandibles, Damage 
2d10 bludgeoning. 

* Centipede Speed 25 feet, climb Speed 25 feet; 
darkvision; Melee *} mandibles, Damage 1d8 piercing 
plus 1d4 persistent poison. 

* Mantis Speed 40 feet; imprecise scent 30 feet; Melee 
*9 foreleg, Damage 2d8 bludgeoning. 

* Scorpion Speed 40 feet; darkvision, imprecise 
tremorsense 60 feet; Melee «> stinger, Damage 1d8 
piercing plus 1d4 persistent poison; Melee *® pincer 
(agile), Damage 1d6 bludgeoning. 

* Spider Speed 25 feet, climb Speed 25 feet; darkvision; 
Melee *9 fangs, Damage 1d6 piercing plus 1d4 
persistent poison; Ranged *$ web (range increment 20 
feet), Damage entangles the target for 1 round. 

Heightened (Ath) Your battle form is Large, and your attacks 
have 10-foot reach. You must have enough space to expand 
into or the spell is lost. You instead gain 15 temporary HP, 
attack modifier +16, damage bonus +6, and Athletics +16. 

Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Huge, and your attacks 
have 15-foot reach. You must have enough space to expand 
into or the spell is lost. You instead gain 20 temporary HP, 
attack modifier +18, damage bonus +2 and double damage 
dice (including persistent damage), and Athletics +20. 


INVISIBILITY SPELL 2 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 material, somatic 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 10 minutes 

Cloaked in illusion, the target becomes invisible. This makes it 

undetected to all creatures, though the creatures can attempt 

to find the target, making it hidden to them instead (page 

466). If the target uses a hostile action, the spell ends after 

that hostile action is completed. 

Heightened (4th) The spell lasts 1 minute, but it doesn't end if 
the target uses a hostile action. 


INVISIBILITY SPHERE 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 material, somatic 

Area 10-foot emanation; Targets you and any number of 
creatures in range 

Duration 10 minutes 


SPELL 3 


You and all targets are invisible except to each other as long as 
you remain within the spell's area. If a creature made invisible 
by this spell leaves the spell’s area, it becomes visible and 
remains so even if it returns to the spell’s area. If any creature 
made invisible by this spell uses a hostile action, the spell ends 
after the hostile action is completed. 

While exploring, it’s easy to move together slowly and 
remain invisible. This is untenable in a battle, however. Once 
an encounter begins, creatures remain invisible until at most 
the end of the first round, at which point the spell ends. 
Heightened (5th) The duration increases to 1 hour. 


ITEM FACADE 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 object no more than 10 feet by 10 feet 
by 10 feet 
Duration 1 hour 
You make the target object look and feel as though it were 
in much better or worse physical condition. When you cast 
this spell, decide whether you want to make the object look 
decrepit or perfect. An item made to look decrepit appears 
broken and shoddy. An intact item made to look better 
appears as though it's brand new and highly polished or well 
maintained. A broken item appears to be intact and functional. 
Destroyed items can't be affected by this spell. A creature that 
Interacts with the item can attempt to disbelieve the illusion. 
Heightened (2nd) The duration is 24 hours. 
Heightened (3rd) The duration is unlimited. 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 1 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 9 somatic 

Your legs surge with strength, ready to leap high and far. You 

jump 30 feet in any direction without touching the ground. You 

must land on a space of solid ground within 30 feet of you, or 
else you fall after using your next action. 

Heightened (3rd) The range becomes touch, the target 
changes to one touched creature, and the duration becomes 
1minute, allowing the target to jump as described whenever 
it takes the Leap action. 


KNOCK 
| TRANSMUTATION | 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 door, lock, or container 
Duration 1 minute 
You make the target easier to open. Knock grants a +4 status 
bonus to any creature that tries to open the target door, lock, or 
container with an Athletics or a Thievery check. You can attempt 
a Thievery check to open the target as part of casting knock, and 
you add your level even if you're untrained. 

Knock counteracts lock. 


SPELL 2 


EQUIPMENT 
å AIA 
| SPELLS 
C9 
HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


Tra 


JATHFIN ER ) CORE EUIEBOOK 3 
M — M a 5 
KNOW DIRECTION CANTRIP 1 


EXZAECCNETTS 


Traditions divine, occult, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

In your mind's eye, you see a path northward. You immediately 

know which direction is north (if it exists at your current location). 

Heightened (7th) You can instead know the direction to a 
familiar location, such as a previous home or a favorite tavern. 


LEVITATE SPELL 3 


| Evocation f 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 unattended object or willing creature 
Duration 5 minutes 

You defy gravity and levitate the target 5 feet off the ground. 
For the duration of the spell, you can move the target up or 
down 10 feet with a single action, which has the concentrate 
trait. A creature floating in the air from levitate takes a -2 
circumstance penalty to attack rolls. A floating creature can 
spend an Interact action to stabilize itself and negate this 
penalty for the remainder of its turn. If the target is adjacent to 
a fixed object or terrain of suitable stability, it can move across 
the surface by climbing (if the surface is vertical, like a wall) or 
crawling (if the surface is horizontal, such as a ceiling). The GM 
determines which surfaces can be climbed or crawled across. 


LIGHT CANTRIP 1 


| CANTRIP | EVOCATION | LIGHT f 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 object of 1 Bulk or less, either 
unattended or possessed by you or a willing ally 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 

The object glows, casting bright light in a 20-foot radius (and 

dim light for the next 20 feet) like a torch. If you cast this spell 

again on a second object, the light spell on the first object ends. 

Heightened (4th) The object sheds bright light in a 60-foot 
radius (and dim light for the next 60 feet). 


LIGHTNING BOLT 
EXZIEZTI 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Area 120-foot line 

Saving Throw basic Reflex 
A bolt of lightning strikes outward from your hand, dealing 
Adi2 electricity damage. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12. 


LOCATE 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 3 


Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range 500 feet; Targets 1 specific object or type of object 
Duration sustained 


You learn the direction to the target (if you picked a specific 
object, such as “my mother’s sword”) or the nearest target (if 
you picked a type of object, such as “swords’). If the target is 
a specific object, you must have observed it directly with your 
own senses. If it's a type of object, you still need to have an 
accurate mental image of the type of object. If there's lead or 
running water between you and the target, this spell can't 
locate the object. This means you might find a type of object 
farther away if the nearest one is behind lead or running water. 
Heightened (5th) You can target a specific creature or ancestry 
instead of an object, but you must have met or seen up 
close the creature or ancestry you want to target. 


LOCK 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 lock, or a door or container with a latch 
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
The target's latch mechanism clinks shut, held fast by unseen 
magical restraints. When you magically lock a target, you set 
an Athletics and Thievery DC to open it equal to your spell DC 
or the base lock DC with a *4 status bonus, whichever is higher. 
Any key or combination that once opened a lock affected by 
this spell does not do so for the duration of the spell, though 
the key or combination does grant a *4 circumstance bonus to 
checks to open the door. 

If the target is opened, the spell ends. Assuming the target 
is not barred or locked in some additional way, you can unlock 
and open it with an Interact action during which you touch the 
target. This does not end the spell. You can Dismiss this spell 
at any time and from any distance. 

Heightened (2nd) The duration increases to unlimited, but you 
must expend 6 gp worth of gold dust as an additional cost. 


LONGSTRIDER SPELL 1 


| TRANSMUTATION | 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 hour 

You lengthen your stride beyond what should be possible. You 
gain a +10-foot status bonus to your Speed. 

Heightened (2nd) The duration increases to 8 hours. 


MAGE ARMOR 
[uum ] 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You ward yourself with shimmering magical energy, gaining 
a +1 item bonus to AC and a maximum Dexterity modifier 
of *5. While wearing mage armor, you use your unarmored 
proficiency to calculate your AC. 
Heightened (Ath) You gain a *1 item bonus to saving throws. 
Heightened (6th) The item bonus to AC increases to *2, and 
you gain a *1 item bonus to saving throws. 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 1 


Heightened (8th) The item bonus to AC increases to +2, and 
you gain a +2 item bonus to saving throws. 

Heightened (10th) The item bonus to AC increases to +3, and 
you gain a +3 item bonus to saving throws. 


MAGE HAND 


| cantRiP | EvocaTioN f 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 unattended object of light Bulk or less 

Duration sustained 

You create a single magical hand, either invisible or ghostlike, 

that grasps the target object and moves it slowly up to 20 

feet. Because you're levitating the object, you can move it in 

any direction. When you Sustain the Spell, you can move the 

object an additional 20 feet. If the object is in the air when the 

spell ends, the object falls. 

Heightened (3rd) You can target an unattended object with a 
Bulk of 1 or less. 

Heightened (5th) The range increases to 60 feet, and you can 
target an unattended object with a Bulk of 1 or less. 

Heightened (7th) The range increases to 60 feet, and you can 
target an unattended object with a Bulk of 2 or less. 


MAGIC AURA SPELL 1 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range touch; Targets 1 object of 3 bulk or less 
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You alter the appearance of an item's magic aura. You can 
choose to have the target's aura appear as that of a common 
magic item of twice magic aura's level or lower, or to have it 
register as being under the effects of a spell of your choice 
of magic aura's level or lower. If the target is magical, you 
can instead choose to have it appear as entirely non-magical. 
A caster using detect magic or read aura of an equal or 
higher spell level can attempt to disbelieve the illusion from 
magic aura. Magic aura doesn't mask the aura of spells that 
are 9th level or higher or of items that are 19th level or higher. 
Heightened (3rd) You can target a creature instead of an 
object. When you do, you can either conceal the auras of all 
magic items it has or have that creature's aura appear as if 
it were under the effect of a spell you know. 


MAGIC FANG 

Traditions primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 1 minute 

Choose one of the target's unarmed attacks. You cause that 
unarmed attack to shine with primal energy. The unarmed 
attack becomes a +1 striking unarmed attack, gaining a +1 item 
bonus to attack rolls and increasing the number of damage 
dice to two if it had only one. 


CANTRIP 1 


SPELL 1 


MAGIC MISSILE SPELL 1 


Traditions arcane, occult 


Cast *9 to 99? (somatic, verbal) 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 

You send a dart of force streaking toward a creature that 
you can see. It automatically hits and deals 1d4+1 force 
damage. For each additional action you use when Casting 
the Spell, increase the number of missiles you shoot by one, 
to a maximum of three missiles for 3 actions. You choose 
the target for each missile individually. If you shoot more 
than one missile at the same target, combine the damage 
before applying bonuses or penalties to damage, resistances, 
weaknesses, and so forth. 

Heightened (+2) You shoot one additional missile with each 

action you spend. 


MAGIC MOUTH 


Dw | uuusion | visuau | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature or object 

Duration unlimited 

You specify a trigger (described on page 305) and a message 
up to 25 words long. When the specified trigger occurs 
within 30 feet of the target, an illusory mouth appears on 
the target and speaks the message, and the magic mouth 
spell ends. 


MAGIC WEAPON 


| TRANSMUTATION 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 weapon that is unattended or wielded 
by you or a willing ally 

Duration 1 minute 

The weapon glimmers with magic and energy. The target 

becomes a +1 striking weapon, gaining a +1 item bonus to 

attack rolls and increasing the number of weapon damage 

dice to two. 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 7 


UNCOMMON | CONJURATION | EXTRADIMENSIONAL | 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range 30 feet 
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You conjure an extradimensional demiplane consisting of 
a spacious dwelling with a single entrance. The entrance 
connects to the plane where you Cast the Spell, appearing 
anywhere within the spells range as a faint, shimmering, 
vertical rectangle 5 feet wide and 10 feet high. You designate 
who can enter when you cast the spell. Once inside, you can 
shut the entrance, making it invisible. You and the creatures 
you designated can reopen the door at will, just like opening 
a physical door. 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
CO 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


PEI R Callas PE Ad ATT 
|: THFIND CORE RULEBOOK 3 
ES € oe n ai 


Inside, the demiplane appears to be a mansion featuring 
a magnificent foyer and numerous opulent chambers. The 
mansion can have any floor plan you imagine as you Cast 
the Spell, provided it fits within a space 40 feet wide, 40 feet 
deep, and 30 feet tall. While the entrance to the mansion is 
closed, effects from outside the mansion fail to penetrate it, 
and vice versa, except for plane shift, which can be used to 
enter the mansion. You can use scrying magic and similar 
effects to observe the outside only if they're capable of 
crossing planes. 

A staff of up to 24 servants attends to anyone within the 
mansion. These are like the servant created by the unseen 
servant spell, though they're visible, with an appearance 
you determine during casting. The mansion is stocked with 
enough food to serve a nine-course banquet to 150 people. 


MARINER'S CURSE SPELL 5 

EGLI 

Traditions arcane, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will 

You afflict the target with the curse of the roiling, unforgiving 

sea. The target must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target becomes sickened 1. Reducing its sickened 
condition to O ends the curse. 

Failure The target becomes sickened 1 and can't reduce 
its sickened condition below 1 while the curse remains. 
The curse can be lifted by remove curse or similar magic. 
Whenever the target is sickened and on the water at least a 
mile from shore, it is also slowed 1. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the target becomes sickened 2. 


MASK OF TERROR SPELL 7 

[cmon [ raa [nsw [wem [ sn] 

Traditions arcane, occult, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 1 minute 

The target appears to be a gruesome and terrifying creature. 

The effect is unique to each observer, so a human viewing the 

target might see a demon with bloody fangs, but a demon 

observing the target might see a glowing angelic visage. 
When any creature attempts a hostile action against the 

target, the creature must attempt a Will save. It is then 

temporarily immune until the end of its next turn. 

Success The creature is unaffected. 

Failure The creature becomes frightened 2 before using 
its action. 

Critical Failure The creature becomes frightened 2, and its 
action fails and is wasted. 

Heightened (8th) You can target up to 5 creatures. If a creature 
uses a hostile action or reaction that affects multiple targets 
simultaneously, it needs to attempt only one save against 
mask of terror. 


MASSACRE SPELL 9 


[ocx ecrowmey [cave | 

Traditions arcane, divine, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 60-foot line 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

You unleash a wave of necromantic energy to snuff out the 

life force of those in its path. Each living creature of 17th 

level or lower in the line must attempt a Fortitude save. If the 

damage from massacre reduces a creature to O Hit Points, 

that creature dies instantly. If massacre doesnt kill even a 

single creature, the negative energy violently explodes back 

toward you, dealing an additional 30 negative damage to 

every living creature in the line (even those above 17th level) 

and 30 negative damage to you. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes 9d6 negative damage. 

Failure The creature takes 100 negative damage. 

Critical Failure The creature dies. 

Heightened (10th) The spell can affect living creatures up to 
19th level. Increase the damage to 10d6 on a success, and 
to 115 on a failure. 


SPELL 8 


MAZE 

ENEETUTTTN 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration sustained 

You transport the target into an extradimensional maze of 

eldritch origin and trap it there. Once each turn, the target 

can spend 1 action to attempt a Survival check or Perception 

check against your spell DC to escape the maze. The possible 

outcomes are as follows. 

Critical Success The target escapes and the spell ends. 

Success The target is on the right path to the exit. If the target 
was already on the right path, it escapes the maze and the 
spell ends. 

Failure The target makes no progress toward escape. 

Critical Failure The target makes no progress toward escape, 
and if it was on the right path, it no longer is. 

Teleportation magic doesn’t help the creature escape unless 

the magic can transport across planes, such as plane shift. 

When the spell ends, either because the target escaped or the 

duration ran out, the target returns to the space it occupied 

when it was banished, or to the nearest space if the original 

is now filled. 


| TevePoRrarion 


MELD INTO STONE 
Eo 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 10 minutes 
You merge with an adjacent block of stone with enough 
volume to fit you and your worn and held possessions. You 
must touch the stone when you Cast the Spell. You can hear, 


SPELL 3 


but not see, what's going on outside the stone, and you can 
cast spells while in the stone as long as they dont require line 
of effect beyond the stone. 

Significant physical damage to the stone while you are 
inside it expels you and deals 10d6 damage to you. Passwall 
expels you without dealing damage and ends meld into stone. 
You can Dismiss this spell. 


MENDING 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal) 
Range touch; Targets non-magical object of light Bulk or less 
You repair the target item. You restore 5 Hit Points per spell level 
to the target, potentially removing the broken condition if this 
repairs it past the item's Broken Threshold. You can't replace lost 
pieces or repair an object that's been completely destroyed. 
Heightened (2nd) You can target a non-magical object of 1 
Bulk or less. 
Heightened (3rd) You can target a non-magical object of 2 
Bulk or less, or a magical object of 1 Bulk or less. 


MESSAGE CANTRIP 1 


| caNTRIP | 


SPELL 1 


ILLUSION | LINGUISTIC | MENTAL 


Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast *> verbal 


Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration see below 

You mouth words quietly, but instead of coming out of your 
mouth, they're transferred directly to the ears of the target. 
While others can't hear your words any better than if you 
normally mouthed them, the target can hear your words as 
if they were standing next to you. The target can give a brief 
response as a reaction, or as a free action on their next turn 
if they wish, but they must be able to see you and be within 
range to do so. If they respond, their response is delivered 
directly to your ear, just like the original message. 
Heightened (3rd) The spell's range increases to 500 feet. 


METEOR SWARM SPELL 9 


| evocation | FIRE | 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Area 4 40-foot bursts 

Saving Throw basic Reflex 

You call down four meteors that explode in a fiery blast. Each 

meteor deals 6d10 bludgeoning damage to any creatures in the 

10-foot burst at the center of its area of effect before exploding, 

dealing 14d6 fire damage to any creatures in its 40-foot burst. 

The meteors’ central 10-foot bursts can't overlap, and a creature 

attempts only one saving throw against the spell no matter how 

many overlapping explosions it's caught in, and they can take 

each type of damage once once. The saving throw applies to 

both the bludgeoning and the fire damage. 

Heightened (+1) The bludgeoning damage increases by 1d10, 
and the fire damage increases by 2d6. 


MIND BLANK 


UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
Powerful wards hide a creature from divination magic. The 
target gains a *4 status bonus to saves against mental effects. 
Mind blank attempts to counteract any detection, revelation, 
and scrying effects as if its spell level were 1 higher than its 
actual level. On a success, the divination effect functions 
normally except that it detects nothing about the target and 
its possessions. For instance, detect magic would still detect 
other magic in the area, but not any magic on the target. 


MIND PROBE SPELL 5 

| UNcoMMoN | oivinarion | Lincuistic | menan | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You cast your thoughts through a creature's mind, sifting for 

information. You access the target’s memories and knowledge 

unless it fends you off with a Will save. 

Success The target is unaffected. 

Failure Each round of the spell’s duration, you can Sustain the 
Spell to ask a different question and attempt to uncover 
the answer. For each question, the target can attempt 
a Deception check against your spell DC; if the target 
succeeds, you dont learn the answer, and on a critical 
success, the target gives you a false answer that you believe 
is truthful Once you've asked the target a given question, 
asking it again, even with a separate casting of mind probe, 
produces the same result. 

Critical Failure As failure, and the target takes a -4 circumstance 
penalty to Deception checks against your questions. 


MIND READING SPELL 3 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round or sustained up to 1 minute 

With a cursory mental touch, you attempt to read the target's 

mind. It must attempt a Will save. The target then becomes 

temporarily immune to your mind reading for 1 hour. 

Critical Success The target perceives vague surface thoughts 
from you when you Cast the Spell. 

Success You find out whether the target's Intelligence modifier 
is higher than, equal to, or lower than yours. 

Failure You perceive vague surface thoughts from the target when 
you Cast the Spell, and you find out whether its Intelligence 
modifier is higher than, equal to, or lower than yours. 

Critical Failure As failure, and for the duration of the spell, you 
can Sustain the Spell to detect the target's surface thoughts 
again. The target doesn't receive any additional saves. 


SPELL 8 


EQUIPMENT 
am 
NO 

HE AGE OF 
~ LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


rs 


ieee ne mco 


PATHFİNDER) CORE RULEBOOK * 
ES s iai atio iaaa aar me EE ede f 
MINDLINK SPELL 1 


EAE 


Traditions occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 

You link your mind to the target's mind and mentally impart to 
that target an amount of information in an instant that could 
otherwise be communicated in 10 minutes. 


MIRACLE 
| 
Traditions divine 
Cast *99? material, somatic, verbal 
You request aid directly from your divine source. Your divine 
source always refuses a request out of line with its nature, and 
it might grant a different request (potentially more powerful or 
better fitting its nature) than the one you asked for. A casting 
of miracle can do any of the following things. 
* Duplicate any spell from the divine list of 9th level or 
lower to which you have access. 
* Duplicate any spell from another spell list of 7th level 
or lower. It must be common or you must have access. 
* Produce any effect whose power level is in line with 
the above effects. 
* Reverse certain effects that refer to the wish spell. 
The GM might allow you to try using miracle to produce 
greater effects than these, but doing so may be dangerous, or 
the spell may have only a partial effect. 


MIRROR IMAGE 


J ILLUSION f VISUAL | 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 
Three illusory images of you swirl about your space, potentially 
causing those who attack you to hit one of the images instead 
of you. Any attack that would hit you has a random chance of 
hitting one of your images instead of you. If all three images 
remain, there is a 1 in 4 chance of hitting you (1 on 1d4). With 
two images remaining, there is a 1 in 3 chance of hitting you (1-2 
on 1d6). With only one image, the chances are 1 in 2 (1-3 on 1d6). 
Once an image is hit, it is destroyed. If an attack roll fails 
to hit your AC but doesnt critically fail, it destroys an image 
but has no additional effect (even if the attack would normally 
have an effect on a failure). If an attack roll is a critical 
success and would hit one of the images, one of the images is 
destroyed and the attack roll becomes a success against you. 
Once all the images are destroyed, the spell ends. 


MISDIRECTION 


SPELL 10 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 2 


Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal) 

Range 30 feet; Targets 2 creatures or objects 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 


You reshape the magic aura of one creature or object to 


resemble that of another. You designate one target as 
the primary target and the other as the secondary target. 
Effects that would detect auras on the primary target instead 
detect the same types of auras from the secondary target. 
A creature reading the aura can attempt to disbelieve the 
illusion. You can Dismiss the spell from up to a mile away. 


MISLEAD SPELL 6 
Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You turn yourself invisible and create an illusory duplicate of 
yourself. When you Sustain the Spell, you can mentally dictate 
a course of action for your duplicate to follow that round. Your 
duplicate acts as though it had your full number of actions, 
though it can't actually affect anything in the environment. 
Both the duplicate and your invisibility persist for the spell's 
duration. Performing a hostile action doesn't end mislead's 
invisibility, just like a Ath-level invisibility spell. A creature 
that determines the duplicate is an illusion doesn't necessarily 
know you're invisible, and one that can see your invisible form 
doesn't necessarily know your duplicate is an illusion. 

If you Cast a Spell, attack, or otherwise interact with another 
creature, as a part of that action you can attempt a Deception 
check against observers' Perception DCs to convince them your 
duplicate used that action. This doesn't fool anyone who's aware 
your duplicate is an illusion, nor does it work if the attack obviously 
couldn't have come from the duplicate. For instance, if you fired a 
ray, you could make it look like it came from the duplicate as long 
as the duplicate was positioned appropriately, but if you attacked 
with a sword and your duplicate was across the room from the 
target, your Deception check would automatically fail. 


MODIFY MEMORY 
[uon | mam [ vem. | 
Traditions occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration unlimited 

You alter the targets memories, either erasing a memory, 

enhancing a memory's clarity, altering a memory, or adding 

a false memory. The target can attempt a Will save to resist 

the spell. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected and realizes you tried 
to alter its memory. 

Success The target is unaffected but thinks your spell was 
something harmless instead of modify memory, unless it 
identifies the spell. 

Failure During the first 5 minutes of the spell's duration, you 
can Sustain the Spell to modify a memory once each round. 
When you do, you imagine up to 6 seconds of memory to 
modify, to a maximum of 5 continuous minutes of memory. 

Any memories you've altered remain changed as long as the 

spell is active. If the target moves out of range before the 5 

minutes is up, you cant alter any further memories. 


SPELL 4 


Heightened (6th) You can cast the spell on a willing target to 
suppress all memory of a particular topic, detailed in 50 
words or fewer. The effect is permanent, and it patches 
these omissions with an indistinct haze. 


MOMENT OF RENEWAL 

| HEALING | necromancy | 

Traditions divine, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets up to 6 creatures 
The targets experience a day's worth of recovery in an instant. 
Any detrimental effects that would be gone after 24 hours 
end, though this doesn't shorten the duration of any active 
spells affecting the targets. The targets regain Hit Points and 
recover from conditions as if they had taken 24 hours of rest, 
but they do not make their daily preparations again or gain 
any benefits of rest other than healing. The targets are then 
temporarily immune for 1 day. 


MONSTROSITY FORM 

| POLYMORPH | TRANSMUTATION | 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 

You transform into the shape of a legendary monster, 
assuming a Huge battle form. You must have enough space 
to expand into or the spell is lost. When you cast this spell, 
choose phoenix, purple worm, or sea serpent. While in this 
form, you gain the beast trait (for phoenix) or the animal trait 
(for purple worm or sea serpent). You can Dismiss the spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 

which battle form you choose: 

e AC - 20 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

* 20 temporary Hit Points. 

* Darkvision. 

* One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the 
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks 
you can Strike with. You're trained with them. Your 
attack modifier is +28, and you use the listed damage. 
These attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of 
the enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed 
attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead. 

e Athletics modifier of +30, unless your own modifier 
is higher. 

You also gain specific abilities based on the type of monster 

you choose: 

e Phoenix Speed 30 feet, fly Speed 90 feet; Melee > 
beak (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d6+12 piercing plus 
2d4 fire and 2d4 persistent fire; Melee * talon (agile, 
reach 15 feet), Damage 2d8+12 slashing; Shroud of 
Flame (aura, evocation, fire, primal) 20 feet. You gain 
an aura of fire that extends out from you. A creature 
that enters or ends its turn within the aura takes 2d6 
fire damage. A creature can take this damage only 
once per turn. You can use a single action, which 


SPELL 8 


SPELL 8 


has the concentrate trait, to activate or deactivate 
this aura. 

* Purple Worm Speed 40 feet, burrow Speed 30 feet, 
swim Speed 20 feet; Melee *$ jaws (reach 10 feet), 
Damage 2d12+20 piercing; Melee *> stinger (agile, 
reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8+15 piercing plus 2d6 
persistent poison; Melee *9 body (reach 10 feet) 
Damage 2d8+20  bludgeoning; Inexorable You 
automatically recover from the paralyzed, slowed, and 
stunned conditions at the end of each of your turns. 
You're also immune to being immobilized and ignore 
difficult terrain and greater difficult terrain. 

* SeaSerpent Speed 20 feet, swim Speed 90 feet; Melee 
*9 jaws (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d12+20 piercing: 
Melee ‘> tail (reach 25 feet), Damage 2d8+20 
bludgeoning; Spine Rake «9% (move) You extend 
your spines and Swim or Stride. Each creature you're 
adjacent to at any point during your movement takes 
Ad8+10 slashing damage (basic Reflex against your 
spell DC). 

Heightened (9th) You instead gain AC = 22 + your level, 25 
temporary HP, attack modifier +31, increase damage by one 
damage die, and Athletics +33. 


MOON FRENZY 
“MORPH | TRANSMUTATION 

Traditions primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets up to 5 willing creatures 
Duration 1 minute 
A feral aspect overcomes the targets, making them tough and 
savage. Targets gain 5 temporary Hit Points, a +10-foot status 
bonus to their Speeds, and weakness 5 to silver. They also 
grow vicious fangs and claws, which are unarmed attacks. The 
fangs deal 2d8 piercing damage; the claws deal 2d6 slashing 
damage and have the agile and finesse traits. The targets 
use their highest weapon or unarmed attack proficiency 
with these attacks, and if they have weapon specialization 
or greater weapon specialization, they add this damage as 
well. On a critical hit with one of these unarmed attacks, the 
creature struck takes 1d4 persistent bleed damage. 

The targets can't use concentrate actions unless those 
actions also have the rage trait, with the exception of Seek. A 
creature can attempt to end the spell's effect on itself by using 
a single action, which has the rage trait, to attempt a Will save 
against your spell DC; on a success, it ends the spell's effect 
on itself. 

If a target is in the light of a full moon, it also grows by one 
size if it were Medium or smaller. This increases the reach of a 
Medium or Tiny creature by 5 feet. 

Heightened (6th) The temporary Hit Points increase to 10, the 
silver weakness to 10, and the damage dealt by the attacks 
to three dice. 

Heightened (10th) The temporary Hit Points increase to 20, 
the silver weakness to 20, and the damage dealt by the 
attacks to four dice. 


SPELL 5 


EQUIPMENT 
4 AIA 
| SPELLS 
C9 
HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


ieee ne mco 


HF ‘Cone RULEBOOK 3 
tei $ 
NATURE INCARNATE SPELL10 


mm 

Traditions primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

The primal power of the world flows through you. You 
transform into an incarnation of nature, either a green man 
or a kaiju. Your battle form is Medium for a green man or 
Gargantuan (30-foot-by-30-foot space) for a kaiju. You must 
have enough space to expand into or the spell is lost. While 
in this form, you gain the plant trait (for a green man) or the 
beast trait (for a kaiju). You can Dismiss the spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 

which battle form you choose: 

* AC - 25 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

* 30 temporary Hit Points. 

* Darkvision. 

* One or more attacks specific to the battle form you 
choose, which are the only attacks you can Strike 
with. You're trained with them. Your attack modifier 
is +34, and you use the listed damage. These attacks 
are Strength based (for the purpose of the enfeebled 
condition, for example). If your unarmed attack 
modifier is higher, you can use it instead. 

* Athletics modifier of +36, unless your own modifier 
is higher. 

You also gain specific abilities based on the type of 

incarnation you choose: 

* Green Man Speed 40 feet, climb Speed 40 feet; Melee 
+È vines (reach 30 feet, versatile P), Damage 6d8+12 
bludgeoning; Ranged «> thorns (range 100 feet), 
Damage 6d6+6 piercing; Green Caress (aura, primal, 
transmutation) 60 feet. Enemies other than plants 
must succeed at a Fortitude save against your spell 
DC or become clumsy 1 for 1 round (clumsy 2 on a 
critical failure). 

* Kaiju Speed 50 feet; resistance 5 to physical damage; 
Melee * jaws (reach 30 feet) Damage 6d10+10 
piercing; Melee *9 claws (agile, reach 30 feet), Damage 
6d8+8 slashing; Melee *> foot (agile, reach 15 feet), 
Damage 6d6+10 bludgeoning; Unstoppable You are 
immune to being immobilized and ignore difficult 
terrain and greater difficult terrain; Trample *939* You 
move up to double your Speed and move through the 
spaces of Huge or smaller creatures, trampling each 
creature whose space you enter. A trampled creature 
takes foot damage with a basic Reflex save against 
your spell DC. 


NATURE'S ENMITY 
EX 

Traditions primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Area 500-foot burst; Targets up to 5 creatures 
Duration 10 minutes 


SPELL 9 


Animals, plants, and fungi in the area turn against the targets. 
Each target suffers from the following effects as long as it 
remains in the area. 

* Vegetation springs up from every surface, giving each 
target a -10-foot circumstance penalty to its Speed 
any time it's adjacent to the plants and fungi. 

* Aggressive animals attack unpredictably. At the start 
of its turn, each target rolls a DC 8 flat check. On a 
failure, it's attacked by swarming creatures that deal 
2d10 slashing damage. The target attempts a basic 
Reflex save, and it is flat-footed for 1 round on any 
outcome other than a critical success. 

* The target loses any connection to nature or natural 
creatures. The target has to succeed at a DC 5 flat 
check when casting any primal spell or the spell fails. 
Furthermore, animal, fungus, and plant creatures 
become hostile to it, even one with a strong bond to 
the target, such as an animal companion. 

The GM might decide that you can’t subject some creatures, 
such as an emissary of a nature deity, to the ire of nature. 


NEGATE AROMA SPELL 1 


Í ABJURATION | 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 

Duration 1 hour 

The target loses its odor, preventing creatures from passively 

noticing its presence via smell alone, even if the creatures have 

precise or imprecise scent. A creature attempting a Perception 

check to Seek with scent and other senses might notice the 

lack of natural scent. If the target has any abilities that result 

from its smell, such as an overpowering scent, those abilities 

are also negated. 

Heightened (5th) The range increases to 30 feet, and you can 
target up to 10 creatures. 


NEUTRALIZE POISON 
Traditions divine, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
You pour healing magic through the target in an attempt 
to cure one poison afflicting it. Attempt a counteract check 
against the poison. 


NIGHTMARE 

mm 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range planetary; Targets 1 creature you know by name 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 day 

You send disturbing nightmares to your target. The next time the 
target falls asleep, it must attempt a Will save. If you know the 
target only by name and have never met them, the target gets a 
+4 circumstance bonus to the Will save. 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 4 


Critical Success The target suffers no adverse effects and is 
temporarily immune for 1 week. 

Success The target experiences the nightmares but suffers no 
adverse effects other than unpleasant memories. 

Failure The target experiences the nightmares and awakens 
fatigued. 

Critical Failure The target experiences the nightmares, awakens 
fatigued, and is drained 2 until it is no longer fatigued. 


NONDETECTION SPELL 3 
[UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | 

Traditions arcane, occult, primal 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature or object 

Duration 8 hours 

You erect protective wards that make the target difficult to 
detect via magic. Nondetection attempts to counteract all 
detection, revelation, and scrying divinations made against the 
target or the target’s gear throughout the duration, counting 
cantrips as 1stlevel spells for this purpose. Successfully 
counteracting a divination that targets an area or multiple 
targets negates the effects only for nondetection's target. 


OBSCURING MIST SPELL 2 


Traditions arcane, primal 


4 speis| "JF 


Cast *99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst 
Duration 1 minute 


You call forth a cloud of mist. All creatures within the mist 
become concealed, and all creatures outside the mist become 
concealed to creatures within it. You can Dismiss the cloud. 


OUTCAST'S CURSE SPELL 4 

| CURSE | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL | MISFORTUNE | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will 

You afflict the target with a curse that makes its presence 

abrasive and off-putting. The target must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success For 10 minutes, the target must roll twice and 
use the worse result whenever attempting a Deception, 
Diplomacy, Intimidation, or Performance check, and 
creatures they encounter have an initial attitude toward 
them of one step worse (for instance, unfriendly instead 
of indifferent). 

Failure As success, but the effect is permanent. 

Critical Failure As failure, and creatures that the target 
encounters have an initial attitude toward them of two 
steps worse. 


| 


4 


a y á 


INTRODUCTION 


ANGESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 


FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


: 
i 
? 
| " 
? 

* 


$ aid 
apa 
KO / 
T WM A 


| 


[ 


OVERWHELMING PRESENCE SPELL 9 

EXCAETZTUITTTIETNET 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Area 40-foot burst; Targets any number of creatures 

Saving Throw Will; Duration until full tribute is paid 

You surround yourself with supernatural splendor, appearing 

to be a god or similarly majestic being. You choose the aspects 

of your new majestic appearance. This causes the targets to 

pay tribute to you by bowing or using some other action in 

keeping with your appearance. The number of times a target 

must do this depends on the result of their Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target must pay tribute twice. 

Failure The target must pay tribute six times. 

Critical Failure As failure, and the target must spend all its 
actions paying tribute if possible. 

Paying tribute is a manipulate action or move action, as chosen 

by the creature paying tribute. A creature under this effect 

must pay tribute to you at least once on each of its turns if 

possible. While affected by this spell, a creature is fascinated 

by you and can't use hostile actions against you. The target is 

then temporarily immune for 1 minute. 


PARALYZE 
EXNCHDEETMETN 
Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 

You block the target's motor impulses before they can leave 

its mind, threatening to freeze the target in place. The target 

must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is stunned 1. 

Failure The target is paralyzed for 1 round. 

Critical Failure The target is paralyzed for 4 rounds. At the 
end of each of its turns, it can attempt a new Will save to 
reduce the remaining duration by 1 round, or end it entirely 
on a critical success. 

Heightened (7th) You can target up to 10 creatures. 


PARANOIA 

Psion J wera 

Traditions occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 

You cause the target to see all other creatures as dire threats. 

The target is stricken by intense paranoia toward all creatures 

around it and must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target believes everyone it sees is a potential 
threat. It becomes unfriendly to all creatures to which it 
wasn't already hostile, even those that were previously 
allies. It treats no one as an ally. The spell ends after 1 round. 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 2 


Failure As success, but the effect lasts 1 minute. 

Critical Failure As failure, except the target believes that 
everyone it sees is a mortal enemy. It uses its reactions 
and free actions against everyone, regardless of whether 
they were previously its allies, as determined by the GM. It 
otherwise acts as rationally as it normally does and likely 
prefers to attack creatures that are actively attacking or 
hindering it over those leaving it alone. 

Heightened (6th) You can target up to 5 creatures. 


PASS WITHOUT TRACE 

umo] 

Traditions primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 hour 

You obscure the tracks you leave behind and make it harder 

for others to find you. The DC of checks to Track you gains a 

*4 status bonus or is equal to your spell DC, whichever results 

in a higher DC. You can benefit from only one pass without 

trace spell at a time. 

Heightened (2nd) The duration increases to 8 hours. 

Heightened (4th) The duration increases to 8 hours. The spell 
has a range of 20 feet and an area of a 20-foot-emanation, 
affecting up to 10 creatures of your choice within that area. 


PASSWALL SPELL 5 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Area 5-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall, 10-foot-deep 
section of wooden, plaster, or stone wall 

Duration 1 hour 

You create a visible tunnel through the wall in the chosen area, 

replacing the area with empty space. If the wall is thicker than 

10 feet, the tunnel ends 10 feet in. Even a small layer of metal 

in the wall prevents this spell from functioning. This spell 

doesn't reduce the integrity of the structure. When the spell 

ends, anyone inside the tunnel is shunted to the nearest exit. 

Heightened (7th) The tunnel can be up to 20 feet deep. The 
areas of the wall that contain your tunnel's entrance appear 
completely normal (unless viewed with true seeing or a 
similar effect), despite the tunnel's existence. The tunnel's 
entrance functions as a solid wall, but you can specify a 
password or a trigger (page 305), allowing creatures to 
enter the tunnel freely. 


PEST FORM 
EXCZRETTTTU 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 10 minutes 

You transform into the battle form of a Tiny animal, such as a cat, 
insect, lizard, or rat. You can decide the specific type of animal 
(such as a rat or praying mantis), but this has no effect on the 
form's Size or statistics. While in this form, you gain the animal 
trait and you can't make Strikes. You can Dismiss the spell. 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 1 


You gain the following statistics and abilities: 

e AC - 15 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

* Speed 20 feet. 

* Weakness 5 to physical damage. (If you take physical 
damage in this form, you take 5 additional damage.) 

* Low-light vision and imprecise scent 30 feet. 

* Acrobatics and Stealth modifiers of +10, unless your 
own modifier is higher; Athletics modifier -4. 

Heightened (4th) You can turn into a flying creature, such as a 
bird, which grants you a fly Speed of 20 feet. 


PHANTASMAL CALAMITY 
| ILLUSION | MENTAL | 

Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Saving Throw Will; Range 500 feet; Area 30-foot burst 

A vision of apocalyptic destruction fills the mind of each 
creature in the area. The vision deals 11d6 mental damage (basic 
Will save). On a critical failure, the creature must also succeed 
at a Reflex save or believe it's trapped (stuck in a fissure, adrift 
at sea, or some other fate in keeping with its vision). If it fails 
the second save, it's also stunned for 1 minute. It can attempt a 
new Will save at the end of each of its turns, and on a success, it 
disbelieves the illusion and recovers from the stunned condition. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


PHANTASMAL KILLER 
DEATH | EMOTION | FEAR } ILLUSION |. MENTAL | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 living creature 

Saving Throw Will 

You create a phantasmal image of the most fearsome creature 

imaginable to the target. Only the spell's target can see the 

killer, though you can see the vague shape of the illusion as 
it races forth to attack. The effect of the killer is based on the 
outcome of the target's Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes 4d6 mental damage and is 
frightened 1. 

Failure The target takes 8d6 mental damage and is 
frightened 2. 

Critical Failure The target is so afraid it might die. It must 
attempt a Fortitude save; if the target fails, it dies. On a 
successful Fortitude save, the target takes 12d6 mental 
damage, is fleeing until the end of its next turn, and is 
frightened 4. This effect has the incapacitation trait. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6 on a failure and 
by 3d6 on a critical failure. 


PHANTOM PAIN 


ILLUSION | MENTAL | NONLETHAL 
Traditions occult 
Cast *}> somatic, verbal 


Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 


SPELL 6 


SPELL 4 


SPELL 1 


Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 

Illusory pain wracks the target, dealing 2d4 mental damage 

and 1d4 persistent mental damage. The target must attempt 

a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes full initial damage but no persistent 
damage, and the spell ends immediately. 

Failure The target takes full initial and persistent damage, and 
the target is sickened 1. If the target recovers from being 
sickened, the persistent damage ends and the spell ends. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the target is sickened 2. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d4 and the 
persistent damage by 1d4. 


PHANTOM STEED 

Í CONJURATION | 

Traditions arcane, occult, primal 

Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal) 

Range 30 feet 

Duration 8 hours 

You conjure a Large, magical, equine creature that only you (or 

another Medium or Small creature you choose) can ride. The 

horse is clearly phantasmal in nature, has 20 AC and 10 Hit 

Points, and automatically fails all saves. If it’s reduced to O Hit 

Points, it disappears and the spell ends. The steed has a Speed 

of 40 feet and can hold its rider's body weight, plus 20 Bulk. 

Heightened (4th) The steed has a Speed of 60 feet, can walk 
on water, and ignores areas of natural difficult terrain. 

Heightened (5th) The steed has a Speed of 60 feet, can walk 
on water, and ignores areas of natural difficult terrain. It can 
also air walk but must end its turn on solid ground or fall. 

Heightened (6th) The steed can walk or fly at a Speed of 80 
feet, can walk on water, and ignores natural difficult terrain. 


PLANESHIFT — — SPELL 


| UNCOMMON | CONJURATION | TELEPORTATION | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 10 minutes (focus, material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature, or up to 8 willing 
creatures joining hands 

You and your allies traverse the barriers between planes of 

existence. The targets move to another plane, such as the 

Plane of Fire, the Shadow Plane, or the Abyss. You must have 

specific knowledge of the destination plane and use a magic 

tuning fork created from material from that plane as a focus 

for the spell. While the tuning forks for most prominent planes 

are uncommon, just like the spell plane shift, more obscure 

planes and demiplanes often have rare tuning forks. 

The spell is highly imprecise, and you appear 1d20x25 miles 
from the last place one of the targets (of your choice) was 
located the last time that target traveled to the plane. If it’s 
the first time traveling to a particular plane for all targets, you 
appear at a random location on the plane. Plane shift doesn't 
provide a means of return travel, though casting plane shift 
again allows you to return to your previous plane unless there 
are extenuating circumstances. 


SPELL 2 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
9 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


. PLAYING THE 
GAME 


HF Cone Er HOOK x 
a Lata ti nie old A2 o m ee i 
PLANT FORM SPELL 5 


POSSESSION SPELL 7 


ETAT 
Traditions primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 
Taking inspiration from verdant creatures, you transform into 
a Large plant battle form. You must have space to expand into 
or the spell is lost. When you cast this spell, choose arboreal, 
flytrap, or shambler. You can substitute a similar specific plant 
to turn into (such as a pitcher plant instead of a flytrap), but 
this has no effect on the form's Size or statistics. While in this 
form, you gain the plant trait. You can Dismiss the spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of 

which battle form you choose: 

* AC - 19 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

* 12 temporary Hit Points. 

* Resistance 10 to poison. 

* Low-light vision. 

* One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the 
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks 
you can Strike with. You're trained with them. Your 
attack modifier is +17, and your damage bonus is +11. 
These attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of 
the enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed 
attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead. 

* Athletics modifier of +19, unless your own modifier 
is higher. 

You also gain specific abilities based on the type of plant 

you choose: 

* Arboreal Speed 30 feet; Melee *} branch (reach 15 
feet), Damage 2d10 bludgeoning; Melee *> foot, 
Damage 2d8 bludgeoning; you can speak in this 
form, but you still can’t Cast a Spell or supply verbal 
components. 

e Flytrap Speed 15 feet; resistance 10 to acid; Melee > 
leaf (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8 piercing, and you can 
spend an action after a hit to Grab the target. 

* Shambler Speed 20 feet, swim Speed 20 feet; 
resistance 10 to electricity; Melee ** vine (reach 15 
feet), Damage 248 slashing. 

Heightened (6th) Your battle form is Huge, and the reach of your 
attacks increases by 5 feet. You instead gain AC = 22 + your 
level, 24 temporary HP, attack modifier +21, damage bonus 
+16, and Athletics +22. 


SPELL 8 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 

You fire a blue-white ray of freezing air and sleet that deals 
10d8 cold damage. Make a spell attack roll against the target. 
Critical Success The target takes double damage and is drained 2. 
Success The target takes full damage and is drained 2. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d8. 


Traditions occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 

You send your mind and soul into the target's body, attempting 

to take control. The target must attempt a Will save. You can 

choose to use the effects of a degree of success more favorable 
to the target if you prefer. 

While you're possessing a target, your own body is 
unconscious and cant wake up normally. You can sense 
everything the possessed target does. You can Dismiss this 
spell. If the possessed body dies, the spell ends and you 
must succeed at a Fortitude save against your spell DC or 
be paralyzed for 1 hour, or 24 hours on a critical failure. If 
the spell ends during an encounter, you act just before the 
possessed creature's initiative count. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success You possess the target but can't control it. You ride 
along in the body while the spell lasts. 

Failure You possess the target and take partial control of it. 
You no longer have a separate turn; instead, you might 
control the target. At the start of each of the target's turns, 
it attempts another Will save. If it fails, it's controlled by you 
on that turn; if it succeeds, it chooses its own actions; and 
if it critically succeeds, it forces you out and the spell ends. 

Critical Failure You possess the target fully, and it can only 
watch as you manipulate it like a puppet. The target is 
controlled by you. 

Heightened (9th) The duration is 10 minutes, and you can 
physically enter the creatures body, protecting your 
physical body while the spell lasts. 


POWER WORD BLIND 

mm 

Traditions arcane 

Cast +> verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration varies 

You utter an arcane word of power that can make the target 

blinded upon hearing it. Once targeted, the target is then 

temporarily immune for 10 minutes. The effect of the spell 

depends on the target's level. 

11th or Lower The target is blinded permanently. 

12th-13th The target is blinded for 1d4 minutes. 

14th or Higher The target is dazzled for 1 minute. 

Heightened (+1) The levels at which each outcome applies 
increase by 2. 


POWER WORD KILL 
[uon [ uono [ venm ['oomenr | wer | 


Traditions arcane 

Cast *9 verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Duration varies 


SPELL 7 


SPELL 9 


You utter the most powerful arcane word of power. Once 

targeted, the target is then temporarily immune for 10 

minutes. The effect of the spell depends on the target's level. 

14th or Lower The target dies instantly. 

15th If the target has 50 Hit Points or fewer, it dies instantly; 
otherwise, it drops to O Hit Points and becomes dying 1, or 
increases its dying condition by 1 if it's already dying. 

16th or Higher The target takes 50 damage; if this brings the 
target to O Hit Points, the target dies instantly. 

Heightened (10th) The levels at which each outcome applies 
increase by 2. 


POWER WORD STUN 


SPELL 8 


[| aunirory ES 
Traditions arcane 
Cast ‘> verbal 


Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration varies 

You stun the target with an arcane word of power. Once 

targeted, the target is then temporarily immune for 10 

minutes. The effect of the spell depends on the target's level. 

13th or Lower The target is stunned for 1d6 rounds. 

14th-15th The target is stunned for 1 round. 

16th or Higher The target is stunned 1. 

Heightened (+1) The levels at which each outcome applies 
increase by 2. 


PRESTIDIGITATION 

| CANTRIP | EVOCATION 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 10 feet; Targets 1 object (cook, lift, or tidy only) 
Duration sustained 

The simplest magic does your bidding. You can perform simple 
magical effects for as long as you Sustain the Spell. Each time 
you Sustain the Spell, you can choose one of four options. 

* Cook Cool, warm, or flavor 1 pound of nonliving material. 

e Lift Slowly lift an unattended object of light Bulk or 
less 1 foot off the ground. 

e Make Create a temporary object of negligible Bulk, 
made of congealed magical substance. The object 
looks crude and artificial and is extremely fragile—it 
cant be used as a tool, weapon, or spell component. 

* Tidy Color, clean, or soil an object of light Bulk or less. 
You can affect an object of 1 Bulk with 10 rounds of 
concentration, and a larger object a 1 minute per Bulk. 

Prestidigitation cant deal damage or cause adverse 

conditions. Any actual change to an object (beyond what is 
noted above) persists only as long as you Sustain the Spell. 


PRIMAL HERD SPELL 10 


CANTRIP 1 


Summoning the power of the natural world, you transform 
the targets into a herd of mammoths, and they each assume 
a Huge battle form. Each target must have enough space to 
expand into or the spell fails for that target. Each target gains 
the animal trait. Each target can Dismiss the spell's effects on 
themself. Each target gains the following while transformed: 

* AC = 22 + the target's level. Ignore any armor check 
penalty and Speed reduction. 

* 20 temporary Hit Points. 

* Speed 40 feet. 

* Low-light vision. 

* The following unarmed melee attacks, which are the only 
attacks the target can use to Strike. They're trained with 
them. When attacking with these attacks, the target uses 
their attack modifier with the proficiency and item bonuses 
of their most favorable weapon or unarmed Strike, and the 
damage is listed for each attack. These attacks are Strength 
based (for the purpose of the enfeebled condition, for 
example). If the target's unarmed attack modifier is higher, 
they can use it instead. Melee *® tusk (reach 15 feet), 
Damage 4d8+19 piercing; Melee *$ trunk (agile, reach 15 
feet), Damage 4d6+16 bludgeoning; Melee *> foot (agile, 
reach 15 feet), Damage 4d6+13 bludgeoning. 

* Athletics modifier of +30, unless the target's own 
modifier is higher. 

e Trample 939? You move up to twice your Speed and 
move through the space of Large or smaller creatures, 
trampling each creature whose space you enter. A 
trampled creature takes damage from its foot Strike 
based on a basic Reflex save (DC = 19 + the target's level). 


PRIMAL PHENOMENON SPELL 10 


|. DIVINATION 
Traditions primal 
Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
You request intercession from the natural world, which refuses 
unnatural requests and might grant a different one (potentially 
more powerful or better fitting its character) than the one you 
asked for. A primal phenomenon spell can do any of the following. 
* Duplicate any spell from the primal list of 9th level or 
lower to which you have access. 
* Duplicate any spell from another spell list of 7th level 
or lower. It must be common or you must have access. 
* Produce any effect whose power level is in line with 
the above effects. 
* Reverse certain effects that refer to the wish spell. 
At the GM's discretion, you can try to use primal phenomenon 
to produce greater effects than these, but doing so may be 
dangerous, or the spell may have only a partial effect. 


PRISMATIC SPHERE SPELL 9 


| POLYMORPH || TRANSMUTATION 


Traditions primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets you and up to 5 willing targets 
Duration 1 minute 


| ABJURATION | | LIGHT | 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 10 feet 

Duration 1 hour 


EQUIPMENT 
å AIA 
| SPELLS 
C9 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
.. BAME 


Siac een A ame. | 


jb THFiI CORE RULEBOOK j 
D EE: SEDE 


You create a seven-layered sphere to protect an area. This 
multicolored sphere functions like a prismatic wall but is shaped 
in a 10-foot burst centered on a corner of your space. You must 
form the sphere in an unbroken open space so its edges don't 
pass through any creatures or objects, or the spell is lost. 


PRISMATIC SPRAY SPELL 7 
[onm [uon ] 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot cone 

A spray of rainbow light beams cascades from your open 
hand. Each creature in the area must roll 1d8 on the table 
below to see which beam affects it, then attempt a saving 
throw of the indicated type. The table notes any additional 
traits that apply to each type of ray. If a creature is struck by 
multiple beams, it uses the same d20 result for all its saving 
throws. For all rays, a successful saving throw negates the 
effect for that creature. 


1d8 Color Save 

1 Red Reflex 
2 Orange Reflex 
3 Yellow Reflex 


Effect (Traits) 

50 fire damage (fire) 
60 acid damage (acid) 
70 electricity damage 
(electricity) 


4 Green Fortitude 30 poison damage and 
enfeebled 1 for 1 minute 
(poison) 

5 Blue Fortitude Affected as if by flesh to stone 


(op) 


Indigo Will Confused, as the warp mind 
spell (mental) 

Slowed 1 for 1 minute; if 

a Critical failure, sent to 
another plane, as plane shift 


(teleportation) 


7 Violet Will 


8 Potent — Affected by two beams-roll 
beam twice, rerolling any duplicates 
or results of 8 
PRISMATIC WALL SPELL8 


EM 


Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 995 material, somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet 

Duration 1 hour 

You create an opaque wall of shimmering, multicolored light. 
The wall is straight and vertical, stretching 60 feet long and 30 
feet high. You must form the wall in an unbroken open space 
so its edges don't pass through any creatures or objects, or the 
spell is lost. You can pass through the wall and ignore its effects. 
The wall sheds bright light out to 20 feet on each side (and 
dim light to the next 20 feet). Creatures other than you that 
come into the wall's light must attempt a Will save; they're 
dazzled for 1 round on a success, blinded for 1 round on a 
failure, and blinded for 1 minute on a critical failure. They are 
then temporarily immune to the blinding effect for 1 hour. 


A prismatic wall has seven different layers, each a different 
color. Red, orange, yellow, and green have the effect of a 
5th-level chromatic wall (page 323) spell of that color, and 
the others have the effect of a 7th-level chromatic wall spell 
of that color. A creature that tries to pass through the wall 
must attempt a saving throw against each component wall. 
The effects take place simultaneously, so a creature turned 
to stone by the blue wall is still treated as a creature for the 
indigo and violet walls. 

The wall as a whole is immune to counteracting effects of 
the wall's level or lower; each color must be counteracted by 
its specific spell, as described in chromatic wall. This must be 
done in order (red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, then 
violet). A given color can't be affected until the previous color 
is counteracted. Counteracting a color wall removes that 
colors effect from the wall, and counteracting them all ends 
prismatic wall. You can Dismiss the spell. 


PRIVATE SANCTUM 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range touch; Area 100-foot burst 
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
From outside, the area looks like a bank of impenetrable black 
fog. Sensory stimuli (such as sounds, smells, and light) don't 
pass from inside the area to outside the area. Scrying spells 
cant perceive any stimuli from the area, and mind-reading 
effects don't work in the area. 


PRODUCE FLAME 

ECXETUZETTAUS3 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

A small ball of flame appears in the palm of your hand, and you 

lash out with it either in melee or at range. Make a spell attack 

roll against your target's AC. This is normally a ranged attack, 

but you can also make a melee attack against a creature in 

your unarmed reach. The flame deals fire damage equal to 

1d4 * your spellcasting ability modifier. 

Critical Success The target takes double damage and 1d4 
persistent fire damage. 

Success The target takes full damage. 

Heightened (+1) Increase the damage by 1d4 and the persistent 
damage on a critical hit by 1d4. 


PROJECT IMAGE 
ILLUSION | MENTAL | 

m arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
You project an illusory image of yourself. You must stay within 
range of the image, and if at any point you can't see the image, 
the spell ends. Whenever you Cast a Spell other than one 


SPELL 4 


CANTRIP 1 


SPELL 7 


whose area is an emanation, you can cause the spell effect 
to originate from either yourself or the image. Because the 
image is an illusion, it can't benefit from spells, though visual 
manifestations of the spell appear. The image has the same AC 
and saves as you. If it is hit by an attack or fails a save, the 
spell ends. 


SPELL 5 


PRYING EYE 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range see text 

Duration sustained 


Heightened (+2) The maximum duration you can Sustain the 
Spell increases to 10 minutes. 


PROTECTION 

[rm 
Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
Duration 1 minute 

You ward a creature against a specified alignment. Choose 
chaotic, evil, good, or lawful when you cast this spell. The 
target gains a *1 status bonus to Armor Class and saving 
throws against creatures and effects of the chosen alignment. 
This bonus increases to *3 against effects from such creatures 
that would directly control the target and against attacks 
made by summoned creatures of the chosen alignment. 

This spell gains the trait that opposes the alignment you 
chose-if you choose chaos, this spell gains the lawful trait, 
and vice versa; if you choose evil, this spell gains the good 
trait, and vice versa. 


SPELL 1 


You create an invisible, floating eye, 1 inch in diameter, at a 
location you can see within 500 feet. It sees in all directions 
with your normal visual senses and continuously transmits 
what it sees to you. 

The first time you Sustain the Spell each round, you can 
either move the eye up to 30 feet, seeing only things in front 
of the eye, or move it up to 10 feet, seeing everything in all 
directions around it. There is no limit to how far from you the 
eye can move, but the spell ends immediately if you and the 
eye ever cease to be on the same plane of existence. You can 
attempt Seek actions through the eye if you want to attempt 
Perception checks with it. Any damage dealt to the eye 
destroys it and ends the spell. 


PUNISHING WINDS 

E 

Traditions primal 

Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
Range 100 feet; Area 30-foot radius, 100-foot-tall cylinder 
Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


SPELL 8 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 


FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


A 


ome net ae 
JATHF Conr RULEBOOK j 
oaeee MT a "E ell 


Violent winds and a powerful downdraft fill the area, forming 
a cyclone. All flying creatures in the area descend 40 feet. The 
entire area is greater difficult terrain for Flying creatures, and 
difficult terrain for creatures on the ground or Climbing. Any 
creature that ends its turn Flying within the area descends 20 
feet. Any creature pushed into a surface by this spell's winds 
takes bludgeoning damage as though it had fallen. 

The squares at the outside vertical edges of the cylinder 
prevent creatures from leaving. These squares are greater 
difficult terrain, and a creature attempting to push through 
must succeed at an Athletics check or Acrobatics check to 
Maneuver in Flight against your spell DC to get through. A 
creature that fails ends its current action but can try again. 


PURIFY FOOD AND DRINK SPELL 1 
[umm] 

Traditions divine, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 cubic foot of contaminated food or water 
You remove toxins and contaminations from food and drink, 
making them safe to consume. This spell doesn't prevent 
future contamination, natural decay, or spoilage. One cubic 
foot of liquid is roughly 8 gallons. 


PURPLE WORM STING 

[necromancy [Poson ] 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

You replicate the attack of a deadly purple worm. You deal 3d6 

piercing damage to the touched creature and afflict it with 

purple worm venom. The target must attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes 3d6 poison damage. 

Failure The target is afflicted with purple worm venom at stage 1. 

Critical Failure The target is afflicted with purple worm venom 
at stage 2. 

Purple Worm Venom (poison) Level 11; Maximum Duration 6 
rounds; Stage 13d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round); 
Stage 2 4d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round); Stage 
3 6d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round) 


RAISE DEAD 
OMMON |. HEALING | Necromancy | 

Traditions divine 
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal); Cost diamonds 

worth a total value of the target’s level (minimum 1) x 200 gp 
Range 10 feet; Targets 1 dead creature of 13th level or lower 
You attempt to call forth the dead creatures soul, requiring 
the creature’s body to be present and relatively intact. The 
creature must have died within the past 3 days. If Pharasma 
has decided that the creature's time has come (at the GM's 
discretion), or if the creature doesn’t wish to return to life, this 
spell automatically fails, but the diamonds aren't consumed in 
the casting. 


SPELL 6 


SPELL 6 


If the spell is successful, the creature returns to life with 1 Hit 
Point, no spells prepared or spell slots available, no points in any 
pools or any other daily resources, and still with any long-term 
debilitations of the old body. The time spent in the Boneyard 
leaves the target temporarily debilitated, making it clumsy 2, 
drained 2, and enfeebled 2 for 1 week; these conditions can't be 
removed or reduced by any means until the week has passed. 
The creature is also permanently changed by its time in the 
afterlife, such as a slight personality shift, a streak of white in 
the hair, or a strange new birthmark. 

Heightened (7th) The maximum level of the target increases to 15. 

The cost increases to the target's level (minimum 1) x 400 gp. 
Heightened (Bth) The maximum level of the target increases to 17. 

The cost increases to the target's level (minimum 1) x 800 gp. 
Heightened (9th) The maximum level of the target increases 

to 19. The cost increases to the target's level (minimum 1) x 

1,600 gp. 

Heightened (10th) The maximum level of the target increases 

to 21. The cost increases to the target's level (minimum 1) x 

3,200 gp. 


RAY OF ENFEEBLEMENT 
CAE divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 minute 
A ray that saps a foe's strength flashes from your hand. Attempt 
a ranged spell attack against the target. If you succeed, that 
creature attempts a Fortitude save to determine the spell's 
effect. If your attack roll is a critical success, use the outcome 
for one degree of success worse than the result of its save. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target becomes enfeebled 1. 

Failure The target becomes enfeebled 2. 

Critical Failure The target becomes enfeebled 3. 


RAY OF FROST 

Í artack | cantrip | couo | evocation f 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 

You blast an icy ray. Make a spell attack roll. The ray deals 

cold damage equal to 1d4 * your spellcasting ability modifier. 

Critical Success The target takes double damage and takes a 
-10-foot status penalty to its Speeds for 1 round. 

Success The target takes normal damage. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4. 


READ AURA 


En DETECTION | DIVIN 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal) 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 object 

You focus on the target object, opening your mind to perceive 


magical auras. When the casting is complete, you know 


SPELL 1 


CANTRIP 1 


CANTRIP 1 


whether that item is magical, and if it is, you learn the school 
of magic (pages 297-298). 

If the object is illusory, you detect this only if the effect's 
level is lower than the level of your read aura spell. 
Heightened (3rd) You can target up to 10 objects. 

Heightened (6th) You can target any number of objects. 


READ OMENS SPELL 4 


| UNCOMMON | DIVINATION | PREDICTION | 
Traditions divine, occult 


Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 


one is in this perfected form. If the object was magical, this 
spell typically restores its constant magical properties, but 
not any temporary ones, such as charges or one-time uses. An 
item with charges or uses per day has all of its uses expended 
when remade, but it replenishes them normally thereafter. 


REMOVE CURSE SPELL 4 


HEALING | NECROMANCY 
Traditions divine, occult 
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 


Range touch; Targets 1 creature 


You peek into the future. Choose a particular goal or activity 
you plan to engage in within 1 week, or an event you expect 
might happen within 1 week. You learn a cryptic clue or piece 
of advice that could help with the chosen event, often in the 
form of a rhyme or omen. 


REGENERATE SPELL 7 


Your touch grants a reprieve to a cursed creature. You attempt 
to counteract one curse afflicting the target. If the curse 
comes from a cursed item or other external source, a success 
indicates that the target creature can rid itself of the cursed 
item, but it doesn't remove the curse from the item. 


REMOVE DISEASE SPELL 3 


| HEALING | necromancy f PosITIVE f 


Traditions divine, primal 

Cast *}% somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing living creature 

Duration 1 minute 

An infusion of positive energy grants a creature continuous 

healing. The target temporarily gains regeneration 15, which 

restores 15 Hit Points to it at the start of each of its turns. While 

it has regeneration, the target can't die from damage and its 

dying condition can't increase to a value that would kill it (this 

stops most creatures from going beyond dying 3), though if its 

wounded value becomes 4 or higher, it stays unconscious until 

its wounds are treated. If the target takes acid or fire damage, 

its regeneration deactivates until after the end of its next turn. 
Each time the creature regains Hit Points from regeneration, 

it also regrows one damaged or ruined organ (if any). During 

the spell's duration, the creature can also reattach severed 

body parts by spending an Interact action to hold the body 

part to the area it was severed from. 

Heightened (9th) The regeneration increases to 20. 


REMAKE 


J UNCOMMON | CONJURATION | 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast 1 hour (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range 5 feet 
You fully re-create an object from nothing, even if the object 
was destroyed. To do so, you must be able to picture the object 
in your mind. Additionally, the material component must be a 
remnant of the item, no matter how small or insignificant (even 
a speck of dust that remains from disintegrate is enough). The 
spell fails if your imagination relied on too much guesswork; 
if the object would be too large to fit in a 5-foot cube; if the 
object still exists and you were simply not aware of it; or if the 
object is an artifact, has a level over 20, or has similar vast 
magical power. 

The item reassembles in perfect condition. Even if your 
mental image was of a damaged or weathered object, the new 


SPELL 10 


Í HEALING || NECROMANCY 

Traditions divine, primal 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Healing magic purges disease from a creature's body. You 
attempt to counteract one disease afflicting the target. 


REMOVE FEAR SPELL 2 


| ENCHANTMENT | 

Traditions divine, occult, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

With a touch, you ease a creatures fears. You can attempt 

to counteract a single fear effect that the target suffers from. 

This frees only the target, not any other creatures under the 

fear effect. 

Heightened (6th) The spell's range increases to 30 feet, and 
you can target up to 10 creatures. 


REMOVE PARALYSIS 
Traditions divine, occult, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
A surge of energy frees a paralyzed creature. You can attempt 
to counteract a single effect imposing the paralyzed condition 
on the target. This does not cure someone who is paralyzed 
from some natural state or effect, such as paralysis caused by 
non-magical wounds or toxins. 
Heightened (6th) The spell's range increases to 30 feet, and 
you can target up to 10 creatures. 


REPULSION 


ABJURATION | AURA | MENTAL | 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 


Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Area emanation up to 40 feet 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 6 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 


v DX 
EV t 


. THE AGE DF 
. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


Pw 


PEI R ees PE Ad maine mnc 
I: THFIND CORE RULEBOOK 4 
ET ET) Been itia ee eel 


You manifest an aura that prevents creatures from approaching 
you. When casting the spell, you can make the area any radius 
you choose, up to 40 feet. A creature must attempt a Will save 
if it's within the area when you cast the spell or as soon as it 
enters the area while the spell is in effect. Once a creature has 
attempted the save, it uses the same result for that casting 
of repulsion. Any restrictions on a creatures movement apply 
only if it voluntarily moves toward you. For example, if you 
move closer to a creature, it doesn't then need to move away. 
Critical Success The creatures movement is not restricted. 

Success The creature treats each square in the area as difficult 

terrain when moving closer to you. 
Failure The creature can't move closer to you within the area. 


RESILIENT SPHERE SPELL 4 


| ABJURATION | FORCE | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 Large or smaller creature 

Duration 1 minute 

You create an immobile sphere of force to either trap or protect 

the target, blocking anything that would pass through the 

sphere. The sphere has AC 5, Hardness 10, and 40 Hit Points. 

It's immune to critical hits and precision damage. Disintegrate 

destroys the sphere instantly. If the target is unwilling, the 

effects of the sphere depend on the target's Reflex save. 

Critical Success The target disrupts the spheres integrity, 
causing it to collapse entirely. 

Success The sphere functions normally but has only 10 Hit 
Points instead of 40. 

Failure The sphere has its normal effect. 


RESIST ENERGY 

ru 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 10 minutes 

A shield of elemental energy protects a creature against one 

type of energy damage. Choose acid, cold, electricity, fire, or 

sonic damage. The target and its gear gain resistance 5 against 

the damage type you chose. 

Heightened (4th) The resistance increases to 10, and you can 
target up to two creatures. 

Heightened (7th) The resistance increases to 15, and you can 
target up to five creatures. 


RESPLENDENT MANSION 


EmW 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range 500 feet 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You conjure a towering mansion up to four stories tall and up to 
300 feet on a side. While Casting the Spell, you hold an image 
of the mansion and its desired appearance in your mind. The 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 9 


mansion can contain as many or as few rooms as you desire, 
and it is decorated as you imagine it. You can imagine a purpose 
for each room of the mansion, and the proper accouterments 
appear within. Any furniture or other mundane fixtures function 
normally for anyone inside the mansion, but they cease to exist 
if taken beyond its walls. No fixture created with this spell can 
create magical effects, but magical devices brought into the 
mansion function normally. 

Your mansion contains the same types and quantities 
of foodstuffs and servants as created by the magnificent 
mansion spell. 

Each of the mansion's exterior doorways and windows are 
protected by alarm spells. You choose whether each alarm is 
audible or mental as you Cast the Spell, and each has a different 
sound (for an audible alarm) or sensation (for a mental one), 
allowing you to instantly determine which portal has been used. 


RESTORATION SPELL 2 

Traditions divine, occult, primal 

Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Restorative magic counters the effects of toxins or conditions 

that prevent a creature from functioning at its best. When you 

cast restoration, choose to either reduce a condition or lessen 
the effect of a toxin. A creature can benefit from only one 
restoration spell each day, and it can't benefit from restoration 

more than once to reduce the stage of the same exposure to a 

given toxin. 

e Reduce a Condition Reduce the value of the target's 
clumsy, enfeebled, or stupefied condition by 2. You can 
instead reduce two of the listed conditions by 1 each. 

* Lessen a Toxin Reduce the stage of one toxin the 
target suffers from by one stage. This can't reduce the 
stage below stage 1 or cure the affliction. 

Heightened (4th) Add drained to the list of conditions you can 
reduce. When you lessen a toxin, reduce the stage by two. 
You also gain a third option that allows you to reduce the 
targets doomed value by 1. You can't use this to reduce a 
permanent doomed condition. 

Heightened (6th) As the 4th-level restoration, but you can reduce 
a permanent doomed condition if you add a spellcasting action 
and a material component while Casting the Spell, during 
which you provide 100 gp worth of diamond dust as a cost. 


RESTORE SENSES SPELL 2 
Traditions divine, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

You attempt to counteract a single effect imposing the blinded 
or deafened conditions on the target, restoring its vision 
or hearing. This can counteract both temporary magic and 
permanent consequences of magic, but it doesn't cure someone 
who does not have the sense due to some natural state or 
effect, such as from birth or from a non-magical wound or toxin. 


t seeLLS Í) Á 


] 
1 


a y á 


INTRODUCTION 


ANGESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 


FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


Heightened (6th) The spell’s range increases to 30 feet, and 
you can target up to 10 creatures. You can choose the effect 
to counteract separately for each selected creature. 


RETROCOGNITION 
Traditions occult 
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 
Duration sustained 
Opening your mind to occult echoes, you gain impressions from 
past events that occurred in your current location. Retrocognition 
reveals psychic impressions from events that occurred over the 
course of the last day throughout the first minute of the duration, 
followed by impressions from the next day back the next minute, 
and so on. These echoes dont play out like a vision but instead 
reveal impressions of emotions and metaphors that provide 
cryptic clues and details of the past. If you witness a traumatic 
or turbulent event through an impression, the spell ends unless 
you succeed at a Will save with a DC of at least 30 and possibly 
as much as 50, depending on the severity of the event. The GM 
determines whether an event is traumatic and chooses the DC. 
Heightened (8th) You gain impressions of events that occurred 
over the previous year for each minute you concentrate, 
instead of the previous day, though the details diminish, 
making it harder to distinguish impressions from all but the 
most major events. 


SPELL 7 


Heightened (9th) You gain impressions of events that occurred 
over the previous century for each minute you concentrate, 
instead of the previous day, though the details diminish, 
making it almost impossible to distinguish impressions 
from all but the most major events. 


REVERSE GRAVITY 
[UNCOMMON | EVOCATION | 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 995 material, somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot radius, 40-foot-tall cylinder 
Duration 1 minute 
You reverse gravity in the area. Creatures and objects that 
aren't secured to the ground immediately fall upward to the 
top of the area. A creature might be able to Grab an Edge 
to arrest its fall if it falls past an appropriate surface. If a 
creature falls against a solid object (such as a ceiling), it takes 
the appropriate amount of falling damage and lands on the 
surface. Once an object or creature reaches the top of the area, 
it floats, caught between the normal and reversed gravity. The 
creature can move along the plane where the two forms of 
gravity meet. Creatures that can levitate or fly can use those 
abilities to mitigate the effects of reverse gravity. 

When reverse gravity ends, all creatures and objects caught 
in the area fall back down. Likewise, anything that moves 
beyond the spell's area is subjected to normal gravity again. 


SPELL 7 


JIATHFIND CORE RULEBOOK 4 

E iL aat ti nodes iti a — CU o a il 
REVIVAL SPELL 10 
| HEALING | necromancy | Positive 


Traditions divine, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets dead creatures and living creatures of 
your choice within range 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

A burst of healing energy soothes living creatures and 

temporarily rouses those recently slain. All living targets regain 

10d8+40 Hit Points. In addition, you return any number of dead 

targets to life temporarily, with the same effects and limitations 

as raise dead (page 362). The raised creatures have a number 

of temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points you gave living 

creatures, but no normal Hit Points. The raised creatures can't 

regain Hit Points or gain temporary Hit Points in other ways, and 

once revival's duration ends, they lose all temporary Hit Points 

and die. Revival can't resurrect creatures killed by disintegrate 

or a death effect. It has no effect on undead. 


RIGHTEOUS MIGHT 

| POLYMORPH | TRANSMUTATION f 
Traditions divine 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal; Requirements You have a deity. 
Duration 1 minute 

You focus all your divine energy and transform yourself into 
a Medium battle form, similar to your normal form but armed 
with powerful divine armaments granted by your deity. While 
in this form, you gain the statistics and abilities listed below. 
You have hands in this battle form and can use manipulate 
actions. You can Dismiss the spell. 

You gain the following statistics and abilities: 

* AC - 20 + your level. Ignore your armor's check penalty 
and Speed reduction. 

* 10 temporary Hit Points. 

* Speed 40 feet. 

* Resistance 3 against physical damage. 

* Darkvision. 

* A special attack with a righteous armament version of 
your favored weapon, which is the only attack you can 
use. Your attack modifier with the special weapon is 
+21, and your damage bonus is +8 (or +6 for a ranged 
attack). If your attack modifier with your deity's 
favored weapon is higher, you can use it instead. You 
deal three of your weapon's normal damage dice, or 
three damage dice of one size larger if your weapon 
is a simple weapon with a d4 or d6 damage die. The 
weapon has one of the following properties that 
matches your deity's alignment: anarchic, axiomatic, 
holy, unholy. If your deity is true neutral, you instead 
deal an extra 1d6 precision damage. 

* Athletics modifier of +23, unless your own modifier 
is higher. 


SPELL 6 


Heightened (8th) Your battle form is Large, and your attacks 
have 10-foot reach, or 15-foot reach if your deity's favored 
weapon has reach. You must have enough space to expand 
into or the spell is lost. You instead gain AC - 21 * your level, 


15 temporary HP, resistance 4 against physical damage, 
attack modifier +28, damage bonus +15 (+12 for a ranged 
attack), and Athletics 429. 


ROPE TRICK 


| UNCOMMON | CONJURATION | EXTRADIMENSIONAL | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets 1 touched piece of rope from 5 to 30 
feet long 

Duration 8 hours 

You cause the target rope to rise vertically into the air. Where it 

ends, an extradimensional space opens, connected to the top of 

the rope. This space can be reached only by climbing the rope. 
The entrance to the space can't be seen, and it can be 

pinpointed only by the presence of the rope. The rope can't 

be removed or hidden, though it can be detached from the 

extradimensional space by pulling it with 16,000 pounds of 

weight, critically succeeding at an Athletics check against the 

spell's DC, or destroying the rope. The space holds up to eight 

Medium creatures and their gear. A Large creature counts as 

two Medium creatures, a Huge creature counts as four Medium 

creatures, and a Gargantuan creature fills the space on its own. 
If the rope is detached or destroyed, or if a creature attempts 

to enter the space that would put it over its capacity, the space 

begins to unravel. It disappears in 1d4 rounds, depositing the 

creatures within safely on the ground below. 


SANCTIFIED GROUND 
[immo [ovum ] 
Traditions divine 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal); Cost 1 vial of holy water 
Area 30-foot burst centered on you 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You sanctify the area, sprinkling it with holy water and warding 
it against your foes. Choose aberrations, celestials, dragons, 
fiends, monitors, or undead. All creatures in the area gain a 
*1 status bonus to AC, attack rolls, damage rolls, and saving 
throws against the chosen creatures. 


SANCTUARY 

p 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 1 minute 

You ward a creature with protective energy that deters enemy 

attacks. Creatures attempting to attack the target must 

attempt a Will save each time. If the target uses a hostile 

action, the spell ends. 

Critical Success Sanctuary ends. 

Success The creature can attempt its attack and any other 
attacks against the target this turn. 

Failure The creature cant attack the target and wastes the 
action. It can't attempt further attacks against the target 
this turn. 


SPELL 4 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 1 


Critical Failure The creature wastes the action and can't attempt 
to attack the target for the rest of sanctuary's duration. 


SCINTILLATING PATTERN SPELL 8 


DR (incapacitation | visua | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 material, somatic 

Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst 

Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

A field of cascading, ever-changing colors manifests in the air. 

Creatures are dazzled while inside the pattern, as are those 

within 20 feet of the pattern’s area. A creature must attempt 

a Will save if it is inside the pattern when you cast it, enters 

the pattern, ends its turn within the pattern, or uses a Seek or 

Interact action on the pattern. A creature currently affected by 

the pattern doesn't need to attempt new saves. 

Success The creature is unaffected. 

Failure The creature is confused for 1d4 rounds. 

Critical Failure The creature is stunned for 1d4 rounds. After 
the stunned condition ends, the creature is confused for the 
remaining duration of the spell. 


SCRYING 


[UNCOMMON | DIVINATION | ScRVING 


Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range planetary; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 10 minutes 

You magically spy on a creature of your choice. Scrying works 

like clairvoyance (page 324), except that the image you receive 

is less precise, insufficient for teleport and similar spells. 

Instead of creating an eye in a set location within 500 feet, you 

instead create an eye that manifests just above the target. You 

can choose a target either by name or by touching one of its 

possessions or a piece of its body. If you haven't met the target 

in person, scrying’s DC is 2 lower, and if you are unaware of 

the target's identity (perhaps because you found an unknown 

creature's fang at a crime scene), the DC is instead 10 lower. 
The effect of scrying depends on the target's Will save. 

Critical Success The spell fails and the target is temporarily 
immune for 1 week. The target also gains a glimpse of you 
and learns its rough distance and direction from you. 

Success The spell fails and the target is temporarily immune 
for 1 day. 

Failure The spell succeeds. 

Critical Failure The spell succeeds, and the eye follows the 
target if it moves, traveling up to 60 feet per round. 


SEARING LIGHT SPELL 3 


| attack | evocation | FIRE | coon f ucht 
Traditions divine, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 

You shoot a blazing ray of light tinged with holy energy. Make a 
ranged spell attack. The ray deals 5d6 fire damage. If the target is 


a fiend or undead, you deal an extra 5d6 good damage. 


SPELL 6 


Critical Success The target takes double fire damage, as well 
as double good damage if a fiend or undead. 

Success The target takes full damage. 

If the light passes through an area of magical darkness or 

targets a creature affected by magical darkness, searing light 

attempts to counteract the darkness. If you need to determine 

whether the light passes through an area of darkness, draw a 

line between yourself and the spell's target. 

Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 2d6, and the 
good damage against fiends and undead increases by 2d6. 


SECRET PAGE SPELL 3 
| iutusion | visuat | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets 1 page up to 3 square feet in size 
Duration unlimited 

You change the target's text to different text entirely. If the text 
is a spellbook or a scroll, you can change it to show a spell you 
know of secret page's level or lower. The replacement spell cannot 
be cast or used to prepare a spell. You can also transform the text 
into some other text you have written or have access to. You can 
specify a password that allows a creature touching the page to 
change the text back and forth. You must choose the replacement 
text and the password, if any, when you Cast the Spell. 


SEE INVISIBILITY 


DIVINATION | REVELATION | 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 10 minutes 

You can see invisible creatures and objects. They appear to 
you as translucent shapes, and they are concealed to you. 
Heightened (5th) The spell has a duration of 8 hours. 


SENDING 

| DIVINATION | MENTAL | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast *}9 material, somatic, verbal 
Range planetary; Targets 1 creature with whom you are familiar 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 5 


You send the creature a mental message of 25 words or fewer, 
and it can respond immediately with its own message of 25 
words or fewer. 


SPELL 5 


Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range varies; Area varies 

Saving Throw basic Reflex or Will (target's choice) 

You shape the quasi-real substance of the Shadow Plane into 
a blast. Choose acid, bludgeoning, cold, electricity, fire, force, 
piercing, slashing, or sonic damage, and choose a 30-foot cone, 
a 15-foot burst within 120 feet, or a 50-foot line. The blast deals 
5d8 damage of the type you chose to each creature in the area. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8. 


EQUIPMENT 
a 9,0, ' 
| SPELLS 
"CO 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 
GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
| B TREASURE 


APPENDI 
i 


lee ne umo 


HF | CORE BETPRSOK a 
BRL. OE z 
SHADOW SIPHON SPELL5 


mem 


Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 2 verbal; Trigger A spell or magical effect deals damage. 

Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering spell 

Exchanging material energy with that of the Shadow Plane, 
you transform the triggering spell into a partially illusory 
version of itself. Attempt to counteract the target spell. If the 
attempt is successful, any creatures that would be damaged 
by the spell instead take only half as much damage, but 
the spell otherwise works as normal. Treat shadow siphon's 
counteract level as 2 higher for this attempt. 


SHADOW WALK 
[uncommon] consurarion | : 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets you and up to 9 willing creatures touched 
Duration 8 hours 

You access the Shadow Plane, using its warped nature to 
spread your travels. The targets enter the edge of the Shadow 
Plane where it borders the Material Plane. Targets can't see 
the Material Plane while on the Shadow Plane (although 
elements of that plane can sometimes be a hazy reflection 
of the Material Plane). While on the Shadow Plane, the 
targets are exposed to potential encounters with that plane's 
denizens. The shadows on the border between the planes 
bend space, speeding up your movement with respect to the 
Material Plane. Every 3 minutes the targets travel along this 
border, they move as far as they would through the Material 
Plane in 1 hour. At any point, a target can Dismiss the spell's 
effects, although this affects only that target. The shadow 
bending is inexact, so when the spell ends, the targets 
appear roughly 1 mile from their intended location on the 
Material Plane (though those who are traveling together and 
Dismiss the spell at the same point on the Plane of Shadow 
appear together). 


SHAPE STONE 

[ean ress 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets cube of stone 10 feet across or smaller 

You shape the stone into a rough shape of your choice. The 

shaping process is too crude to produce intricate parts, fine 

details, moving pieces, or the like. Any creatures standing 

atop the stone when you reshape it must each attempt a 

Reflex save or Acrobatics check. 

Success The creature is unaffected. 

Failure The creature falls prone atop the stone. 

Critical Failure The creature falls off the stone (if applicable) 
and lands prone. 


SHAPE WOOD 


Traditions primal 


SPELL 5 


SHADOW | TELEPORTATION | 


SPELL 4 


SPELL 2 


Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets an unworked piece of wood up to 20 
cubic feet in volume 

You shape the wood into a rough shape of your choice. The 
shaping power is too crude to produce with intricate parts, 
fine details, moving pieces, or the like. You cannot use 
this spell to enhance the value of the wooden object you 
are shaping. 


SHAPECHANGE 


| POLYMORPH | TRANSMUTATION | 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

Harnessing your mastery of transformative magic, you take 
on a mutable form. You transform yourself into any form you 
could choose with a polymorph spell in your spell repertoire 
or that you could prepare of 8th level or lower (including 
any 8th-level or lower heightened versions of spells you 
know). You choose the type of creature as you Cast the 
Spell rather than when you prepare it. You can change your 
form to any other form you could choose with this spell by 
using a single action, which has the concentrate trait. You 
can Dismiss this spell. 


SHATTER 

Traditions occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 unattended object 

A high-frequency sonic attack shatters a nearby object. You 

deal 2d10 sonic damage to the object, ignoring the object's 

Hardness if it is 4 or lower. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10, and the 
Hardness the spell ignores increases by 2. 


SHIELD 

| ABJURATION | CANTRIP | ro 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 9 verbal 

Duration until the start of your next turn 
You raise a magical shield of force. This counts as using the 
Raise a Shield action, giving you a *1 circumstance bonus to 
AC until the start of your next turn, but it doesn't require a 
hand to use. 

While the spell is in effect, you can use the Shield Block 
reaction with your magic shield (see the sidebar). The shield 
has Hardness 5. After you use Shield Block, the spell ends 
and you can't cast it again for 10 minutes. Unlike a normal 
Shield Block, you can use the spell's reaction against the magic 
missile spell. 

Heightening the spell increases the shield's Hardness. 
Heightened (3rd) The shield has Hardness 10. 

Heightened (5th) The shield has Hardness 15. 
Heightened (7th) The shield has Hardness 20. 
Heightened (9th) The shield has Hardness 25. 


SPELL 9 


SPELL 2 


CANTRIP 1 


SHIELD ACTIONS 
The shield spell works like a raised shield, and it also 
gives you the ability to use the Shield Block reaction. 


SHIELD BLOCK 2 


Trigger While you have your shield raised, you take 
damage from a physical attack. 

You place your shield to ward off a blow. Your shield prevents 

you from taking an amount of damage up to the shield's 

Hardness. You and the shield each take any remaining 

damage, possibly breaking or destroying the shield. 


SHIELD OTHER 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 2 


Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 5 minutes 


You warp space to make a creature smaller. The target shrinks 
to become Tiny in size. Its equipment shrinks with it but 
returns to its original size if removed. The creatures reach 
changes to O feet. This spell has no effect on a Tiny creature. 
Heightened (6th) The spell can target up to 10 creatures. 


SHRINK ITEM SPELL 3 


Traditions divine 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 10 minutes 

You forge a temporary link between the target's life essence 
and your own. The target takes half damage from all effects 
that deal Hit Point damage, and you take the remainder of the 
damage. When you take damage through this link, you don't 
apply any resistances, weaknesses, or other abilities you have 
to that damage; you simply take that amount of damage. The 
spell ends if the target is ever more than 30 feet away from 
you. If either you or the target is reduced to O Hit Points, any 
damage from this spell is resolved and then the spell ends. 


SPELL 1 


POLYMORPH | TRANSMUTATION | 
Traditions arcane 
Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal) 
Range touch; Targets 1 non-magical object up to 20 cubic feet 
in volume and up to 80 Bulk 
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You shrink the target to roughly the size of a coin. This reduces 
it to negligible Bulk. You can Dismiss the spell, and the spell 
ends if you toss the object onto a solid surface. The object 
can't be used to attack or cause damage during the process of 
it returning to normal size. If there isn't room for the object to 
return to normal size when the spell ends, the spell's duration 
continues until the object is in a location large enough to 
accommodate its normal size. 


CANTRIP 1 


Traditions primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 club or staff you hold 
Duration 1 minute 


| CANTRIP | transmutation 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature or object 


Duration unlimited (see below) 


The target grows vines and leaves, brimming with primal 
energy. The target becomes a +7 striking weapon while in your 
hands, gaining a *1 item bonus to attack rolls and increasing 
the number of weapon damage dice to two. Additionally, as 
long as you are on your home plane, attacks you make with 
the target against aberrations, extraplanar creatures, and 
undead increase the number of weapon damage dice to three. 


SHOCKING GRASP SPELL 1 


ECSESTHESZSUN 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

You shroud your hands in a crackling field of lightning. Make 

a melee spell attack roll. On a hit, the target takes 2d12 

electricity damage. If the target is wearing metal armor or 

is made of metal, you gain a *1 circumstance bonus to your 

attack roll with shocking grasp, and the target also takes 1d4 

persistent electricity damage on a hit. On a critical hit, double 

the initial damage, but not the persistent damage. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12, and the 
persistent electricity damage increases by 1. 


You harmlessly place your unique magical sigil, which is about 
1 square inch in size, on the targeted creature or object. The 
mark can be visible or invisible, and you can change it from 
one state to another by using an Interact action to touch 
the target. The mark can be scrubbed or scraped off with 5 
minutes of work. If it's on a creature, it fades naturally over 
the course of a week. The time before the mark fades increases 
depending on your heightened level. 

Heightened (3rd) The sigil instead fades after 1 month. 
Heightened (5th) The sigil instead fades after 1 year. 
Heightened (7th) The sigil never fades. 


SILENCE 

| ruso | 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 material, somatic 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 1 minute 

The target makes no sound, preventing creatures from noticing 
it using hearing alone. The target can't use sonic attacks, nor 
can it use actions with the auditory trait. This prevents it from 
casting spells that include verbal components. 


SPELL 2 


EQUIPMENT 
di e A 
| SPELLS 
"CO 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


4 


ieee ne S| 


t) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
= er wr" 


Heightened (4th) The spell effect emanates from the touched 
creature, silencing all sound in or passing through a 10- 
foot radius and preventing any auditory and sonic effects 
in the affected area. While within the radius, creatures are 
subject to the same effects as the target. Depending upon 
the position of the effect, a creature might notice the lack 
of sound reaching it (blocking off the noise coming from a 
party, for example). 


SLEEP 

[omn T wcarscravon | wena. T. sure. ] 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Area 5-foot burst 

Saving Throw Will 

Each creature in the area becomes drowsy and might fall 

asleep. A creature that falls unconscious from this spell 

doesnt fall prone or release what it's holding. This spell 

doesnt prevent creatures from waking up due to a successful 

Perception check, limiting its utility in combat. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes a -1 status penalty to Perception 
checks for 1 round. 

Failure The creature falls unconscious. If it's still unconscious 
after 1 minute, it wakes up automatically. 

Critical Failure The creature falls unconscious. If it's still 
unconscious after 1 hour, it wakes up automatically. 

Heightened (4th) The creatures fall unconscious for 1 round 
on a failure or 1 minute on a critical failure. They fall prone 
and release what they're holding, and they can't attempt 
Perception checks to wake up. When the duration ends, 
the creature is sleeping normally instead of automatically 
waking up. 


SLOW 

EX 

Traditions arcane, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 minute 
You dilate the flow of time around the target, slowing its actions. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is slowed 1 for 1 round. 

Failure The target is slowed 1 for 1 minute. 

Critical Failure The target is slowed 2 for 1 minute. 
Heightened (6th) You can target up to 10 creatures. 


SOLID FOG 

| consurarion | ware | 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99* material, somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst 
Duration 1 minute 

You conjure a bank of fog so thick it impedes movement as well 
as sight. This functions as obscuring mist (page 355), except 
that the area is also difficult terrain. You can Dismiss the spell. 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 4 


SOOTHE 

Traditions occult 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 1 minute 

You grace the target's mind, boosting its mental defenses 
and healing its wounds. The target regains 1d10+4 Hit Points 
when you Cast the Spell and gains a *2 status bonus to saves 
against mental effects for the duration. 

Heightened (+1) The amount of healing increases by 1d10+4. 


SOUND BURST SPELL 2 

[evocaron sone] 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Area 10-foot burst 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

A cacophonous noise blasts out, dealing 2d10 sonic damage. 

Each creature must attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage and is deafened for 1 round. 

Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, is deafened 
for 1 minute, and is stunned 1. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10. 


SPEAK WITH ANIMALS 
E primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 10 minutes 

You can ask questions of, receive answers from, and use the 
Diplomacy skill with animals. The spell doesn't make them more 
friendly than normal. Cunning animals are likely to be terse and 
evasive, while less intelligent ones often make inane comments. 


SPEAK WITH PLANTS SPELL 4 


DIVINATION | PLANT | 
Traditions primal 
Cast *% somatic, verbal 
Duration 10 minutes 
You can ask questions of and receive answers from plants 
and fungi, but the spell doesn't make them more friendly or 
intelligent than normal. Most normal plants and fungi have 
a distinctive view of the world around them, so they don't 
recognize details about creatures or know anything about the 
world beyond their immediate vicinity. Cunning plant or fungus 
monsters are likely to be terse and evasive, while less intelligent 
ones often make inane comments. 


SPECTRAL HAND 


Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *}% somatic, verbal 


Range 120 feet 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 2 


Duration 1 minute 

You create a semicorporeal hand out of your essence that 
delivers touch spells for you. Whenever you Cast a Spell with a 
range of touch, you can have the hand crawl to a target within 
range along the ground, touch it, and then crawl back to you. 
When making a melee spell attack with the hand, you use your 
normal bonuses. The hand can move as far as it needs to within 
range. The hand has your AC and saves, but any damage to the 
hand destroys it and causes you to take 1d6 damage. 


SPELL IMMUNITY 


| ABJURATION | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You ward a creature against the effects of a single spell. Choose 
a spell and name it aloud as part of the verbal component. Spell 
immunity attempts to counteract that spell whenever spell 
immunity's target is the target of the named spell or in that 
spell's area. Successfully counteracting a spell that targets 
an area or multiple targets with spell immunity negates the 
effects only for the target affected by spell immunity. 


SPELL TURNING SPELL 7 
Traditions arcane 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 hour 

This abjuration reflects spells cast at you back at their caster. 
When a spell targets you, you can spend a reaction to attempt 
to reflect it. This uses the rules for counteracting the spell, but 
if the spell is successfully counteracted, the effect is turned 
back on the caster. Whether or not the counteract attempt is 
successful, spell turning then ends. Spell turning can't affect 
spells that aren't targeted (such as area spells). 

If spell turning reflects a spell back at a caster who is also 
under the effect of spell turning, their spell turning can attempt 
to reflect their own spell back at you again; if they do so, their 
counteract attempt automatically succeeds. 


SPELLWRACK 


| ABJURATION | curse | Force | 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will 

You cause any spells cast on the target to spill out their energy 
in harmful surges. The target must attempt a Will save. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success Whenever the target becomes affected by a spell with 
a duration, the target takes 2d12 persistent force damage. 
Each time it takes persistent force damage from spellwrack, 
it reduces the remaining duration of spells affecting it by 1 
round. Only a successful Arcana check against your spell 
DC can help the target recover from the persistent damage; 


SPELL 4 


SPELL 6 


the curse and the persistent damage end after 1 minute. 
Failure As success, but the curse and persistent damage do 
not end on their own. 
Critical Failure As failure, but the persistent force damage 
is 4d12. 


SPIDER CLIMB 


TRANSMUTATION | 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
Duration 10 minutes 
Tiny clinging hairs sprout across the creatures hands and feet, 
offering purchase on nearly any surface. The target gains a 
climb Speed equal to its Speed. 
Heightened (5th) The duration increases to 1 hour. 


SPIDER STING 


| necromancy | POISON | 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

You magically duplicate a spiders venomous sting. You deal 

1d4 piercing damage to the touched creature and afflict it with 

spider venom. The target must attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes 1d4 poison damage. 

Failure The target is afflicted with spider venom at stage 1. 

Critical Failure The target is afflicted with spider venom at 
stage 2. 

Spider Venom (poison) Level 1; Maximum Duration 4 rounds; 
Stage 1 1d4 poison damage and enfeebled 1 (1 round); Stage 
2 1d4 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round) 


SPIRIT BLAST 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw basic Fortitude 
You concentrate ethereal energy and attack a creature's 
spirit, dealing 16d6 force damage. Because spirit blast affects 
the creature's spirit, it can damage a target projecting its 
consciousness (such as via project image) or possessing 
another creature even if the target's body is elsewhere. The 
possessed creature isn't harmed by the blast. The blast doesn't 
harm creatures that have no spirit, such as constructs. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


SPIRIT LINK 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 10 minutes 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 6 


SPELL 1 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
C9 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
.. BAME 


PATHFINDER] conr RutEBOOK } 


You form a spiritual link with another creature, taking in its pain. 
When you Cast this Spell and at the start of each of your turns, 
if the target is below maximum Hit Points, it regains 2 Hit Points 
(or the difference between its current and maximum Hit Points, if 
that’s lower). You lose as many Hit Points as the target regained. 
This is a spiritual transfer, so no effects apply that would 
increase the Hit Points the target regains or decrease the Hit 
Points you lose. This transfer also ignores any temporary Hit 
Points you or the target have. Since this effect doesn’t involve 
positive or negative energy, spirit link works even if you or the 
target is undead. While the duration persists, you gain no benefit 
from regeneration or fast healing. You can Dismiss this spell, 
and if you're ever at O Hit Points, spirit link ends automatically. 
Heightened (+1) The number of Hit Points transferred each 
time increases by 2. 


SPIRIT SONG 

| FORCE | 
Traditions occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Area 60-foot cone 

Saving Throw basic Fortitude 
Your eldritch song sends pulsing waves of ethereal energy to 
attack creatures' spirits in the area, dealing 18d6 force damage. 
Because spirit song affects creatures' spirits, it can damage a 
target projecting its consciousness (such as via project image) 


SPELL 8 


-— 


or possessing another creature even if the target's body is 
elsewhere. The vibrating waves of spiritual song penetrate into, 
but not through, solid barriers, damaging incorporeal creatures 
hiding in solid objects in the area but not passing onward to 
damage creatures in other rooms. Possessed creatures arent 
harmed by the song. The song doesn't harm creatures that have 
no spirit, such as constructs. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


SPIRITUAL EPIDEMIC 

[CURSE | 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 

You curse the target, sapping its spirit and leaving a contagious 

trap in its essence. The target must attempt a Will save. Any 

creature that casts a divine or occult spell on the target while 

its affected is targeted by spiritual epidemic and must also 

attempt a Will save. The curse continues to spread in this way. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is enfeebled 2 and stupefied 2 for 1 round. 

Failure The target is enfeebled 2 and stupefied 2 for 1 minute 
and enfeebled 1 and stupefied 1 permanently. 

Critical Failure The target is enfeebled 3 and stupefied 3 for 1 
minute and enfeebled 2 and stupefied 2 permanently. 


SPELL 8 


SPIRITUAL GUARDIAN 
Traditions divine 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal; Requirements You have a deity. 
Range 120 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

A Medium guardian made of magical force appears and 
attacks foes you designate within range. The spiritual 
guardian is translucent and appears to be holding your deity’s 
favored weapon. 

When you Cast the Spell, the spiritual guardian appears in 
an unoccupied space next to a foe of your choice within range 
and makes a Strike against it. Each time you Sustain the 
Spell, you can move the spiritual guardian to an unoccupied 
space next to a target within range (if necessary) and make 
a Strike with it. The guardian uses and contributes to your 
multiple attack penalty. Alternatively, when you Sustain the 
Spell, you can have the guardian move adjacent to an ally 
and protect that ally. If you do, each time the ally would take 
damage, the guardian takes the first 10 damage instead of 
your ally. It continues to do so until you move the guardian 
to attack an enemy or defend a different ally, or until the 
guardian is destroyed (it has 50 Hit Points and can't recover 
Hit Points by any means). The guardian can't usually take 
damage except when protecting an ally, though disintegrate 
automatically destroys it if it hits the spiritual guardian's AC 
of 25. 

The guardian's Strikes are melee spell attacks. Regardless 
of the appearance of the guardian s weapon, the guardian 
deals force damage equal to 2d8 plus your spellcasting ability 
modifier, but you can deal damage of the type normally dealt 
by the weapon it holds instead of force damage. No other traits 
or statistics of the weapon apply, and even a ranged weapon 
attacks adjacent creatures only. Despite making a spell attack, 
the spiritual guardian's weapon is a weapon for the purposes 
of triggers, resistances, and so forth. 

The guardian takes up space and allies can use it when 
flanking, but it doesn't have any other attributes a creature 
would normally have aside from Hit Points, and creatures 
can move through its space without hindrance. The guardian 
can't make any attack other than its Strike, and feats or 
spells that affect weapons or enhance allies do not apply to 
the guardian. 

Heightened (+2) The guardian's damage increases by 1d8, and 

its Hit Points increase by 20. 


SPIRITUAL WEAPON 


| Evocation | Force | 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

A weapon made of pure magical force materializes and 
attacks foes you designate within range. This weapon has 
a ghostly appearance and manifests as a club, a dagger, or 
your deity's favored weapon. 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 2 


When you cast the spell, the weapon appears next to a foe 
you choose within range and makes a Strike against it. Each 
time you Sustain the Spell, you can move the weapon to a new 
target within range (if needed) and Strike with it. The spiritual 
weapon uses and contributes to your multiple attack penalty. 

The weapon's Strikes are melee spell attacks. Regardless 
of its appearance, the weapon deals force damage equal to 
1d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. You can deal 
damage of the type normally dealt by the weapon instead 
of force damage (or any of the available damage types for a 
versatile weapon). No other statistics or traits of the weapon 
apply, and even a ranged weapon attacks adjacent creatures 
only. Despite making a spell attack, the spiritual weapon is 
a weapon for purposes of triggers, resistances, and so forth. 

The weapon doesn't take up space, grant flanking, or have 
any other attributes a creature would. The weapon can't make 
any attack other than its Strike, and feats or spells that affect 
weapons do not apply to it. 

Heightened (+2) The weapon's damage increases by 1d8. 


STABILIZE CANTRIP 1 


canmi | | Necromancy 
Traditions divine, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 dying creature 

Positive energy shuts death's door. The target loses the dying 


condition, though it remains unconscious at O Hit Points. 


STATUS SPELL 2 


Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing living creature 

Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 

As long as you and the target are on the same plane of 

existence and both alive, you remain aware of its present 

state. You know the target's direction from you, distance from 

you, and any conditions affecting it. 

Heightened (4th) The spell's range increases to 30 feet, and 
you can target up to 10 creatures. 


STINKING CLOUD 


| conuraTion | Porson | 
Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst 

Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 minute 

You create a cloud of putrid mist in the area. The cloud 
functions as obscuring mist (page 355) except it sickens 
creatures that end their turns within the cloud. (The concealed 
condition is not a poison effect.) 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature is sickened 1. 

Failure The creature is sickened 1 and slowed 1 while in the cloud. 
Critical Failure The creature is sickened 2 and slowed 1 until 
it leaves the cloud. 


SPELL 3 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
9 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
.. BAME 


SAAT ag 


JATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
Se re mer” | 


STONE TELL 

[ uncommon | evocarion | Earm f 
Traditions divine, primal 
Cast *}% somatic, verbal 
Duration 10 minutes 

You can ask questions of and receive answers from natural or 
worked stone. While stone is not intelligent, you speak with the 
natural spirits of the stone, which have a personality colored by 
the type of stone, as well as by the type of structure the stone is 
part of, for worked stone. A stone's perspective, perception, and 
knowledge give it a worldview different enough from a human's 
that it doesn't consider the same details important. Stones can 
mostly answer questions about creatures that touched them in 
the past and what is concealed beneath or behind them. 


STONE TO FLESH SPELL 6 


SPELL 6 


* Lightning Up to 10 bolts of lightning strike down, 
targeting creatures of your choice in the storm. No 
more than one bolt can target any one creature. Each 
bolt deals 7d6 electricity damage (basic Reflex save). 

* Rain and Wind Heavy rain and whipping wind reduce 
visibility and mobility, making the area under the 
storm cloud difficult terrain and making everything 
seen within or through the area concealed. 

* Thunderclap Each creature in the storm must succeed 
at a Fortitude save or be deafened for 10 minutes. 
A creature that succeeds is temporarily immune to 
thunderclaps from storm of vengeance for 1 hour. 

Heightened (10th) The range increases to 2,200 feet, and the 
cloud is a 1,000-foot burst. 


SUBCONSCIOUS SUGGESTION 


SPELL 5 


Eo 


Traditions divine, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets petrified creature or human-size stone object 
Manipulating the fundamental particles of matter, you convert 
stone into flesh and blood. You restore a petrified creature to 
its normal state or transform a stone object into a mass of inert 
flesh (without stone's Hardness) in roughly the same shape. 


STONESKIN SPELL 4 
Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 20 minutes 

The target's skin hardens like stone. It gains resistance 5 to 
physical damage, except adamantine. Each time the target is 
hit by a bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing attack, stoneskin's 
duration decreases by 1 minute. 

Heightened (6th) The resistance increases to 10. 

Heightened (8th) The resistance increases to 15. 

Heightened (10th) The resistance increases to 20. 


STORM OF VENGEANCE 
a Ee 
Traditions primal 
Cast *}%> material, somatic, verbal 
Range 800 feet; Area 360-foot burst 
Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
A massive storm cloud forms in the air in a 360-foot burst. 
Beneath it, rain begins to fall, and gales impose a -4 circumstance 
penalty to physical ranged attacks and weapon ranged attacks, 
and the air in the area becomes greater difficult terrain for flying 
creatures. When you Cast this Spell and the first time each round 
you Sustain the Spell, you can choose one of the following storm 
effects. You can't choose the same effect twice in a row. 
* Acid Rain Each creature in the storm takes 4d8 acid 
damage with no saving throw. 
* Hail The storm deals 4d10 bludgeoning damage to 
creatures beneath it (basic Fortitude save). 


SPELL 9 


Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 
You implant a subconscious suggestion deep within the target's 
mind for them to follow when a trigger you specify occurs (as 
described on page 305). You suggest a course of action to the 
target. Your directive must be phrased in such a way as to seem 
like a logical course of action to the target, and it can't be self- 
destructive or obviously against the target's self-interest. The 
target must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected and knows you tried 
to control it. 

Success The target is unaffected and thinks you were talking 
to them normally, not casting a spell on them. 

Failure The suggestion remains in the target's subconscious 
until the next time you prepare. If the trigger occurs before 
then, the target immediately follows your suggestion. The 
effect has a duration of 1 minute, or until the target has 
completed a finite suggestion or the suggestion becomes 
self-destructive or has other obvious negative effects. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the duration is 1 hour. 

Heightened (9th) You can target up to 10 creatures. 


SUGGESTION 

| encumwenr | incapacarion | uncuisrie | mentar f 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 

Your honeyed words are difficult for creatures to resist. You 

suggest a course of action to the target, which must be 

phrased in such a way as to seem like a logical course of action 

to the target and can't be self-destructive or obviously against 

the target's self-interest. The target must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected and knows you tried 
to control it. 

Success The target is unaffected and thinks you were talking 

to them normally, not casting a spell on them. 


SPELL 4 


Failure The target immediately follows your suggestion. The 
spell has a duration of 1 minute, or until the target has 
completed a finite suggestion or the suggestion becomes 
self-destructive or has other obvious negative effects. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the base duration is 1 hour. 

Heightened (8th) You can target up to 10 creatures. 


SUMMON ANIMAL 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
You conjure an animal to fight for you. You summon a common 
creature that has the animal trait and whose level is -1, such 
as those found in Pathfinder Bestiary volumes. Heightening the 
spell increases the maximum level of creature you can summon. 


SPELL 1 


Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet 
Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


You conjure a dragon to fight for you. This works like summon 
animal, except you summon a common creature that has the 
dragon trait and whose level is 5 or lower. 

Heightened As summon animal. 


SUMMON ELEMENTAL 
Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
You conjure an elemental to fight for you. This works like 
summon animal, except you summon a common creature that 
has the elemental trait and whose level is 1 or lower. 


SPELL 2 


Heightened (2nd) Level 1. 
Heightened (3rd) Level 2. 
Heightened (Ath) Level 3. 
Heightened (5th) Level 5. 
Heightened (6th) Level 7. 
Heightened (7th) Level 9. 
Heightened (8th) Level 11. 
Heightened (9th) Level 13. 
Heightened (10th) Level 15. 


SUMMON CELESTIAL 


CONJURATION | 


Traditions divine 

Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You conjure a celestial to fight on your behalf. This works like 
summon animal, except you summon a common creature that has 
the celestial trait and whose level is 5 or lower. You can't summon 
a creature unless its alignment is one of your deity's preferred 
alignments (or, if you don't have a deity, is within one step of your 
alignment). At the GM's discretion, some deities might restrict 
specific types of celestials, even if their alignments match. 
Heightened As summon animal. 


SUMMON CONSTRUCT 
Traditions arcane 

Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
You conjure a construct to fight for you. This works like 
summon animal, except you summon a common creature that 
has the construct trait and whose level is -1. 

Heightened As summon animal. 


SUMMON DRAGON 
| CONJURATION | 
Traditions arcane 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 5 


Heightened As summon animal. 


SUMMON ENTITY 

| CONJURATION | 

Traditions occult 

Cast *}9 material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
You conjure an aberration to fight for you. This works like 
summon animal, except you summon a common creature that 
has the aberration trait and whose level is 5 or lower. 
Heightened As summon animal. 


SUMMON FEY 


E 

Traditions occult, primal 

Cast *}9 material, somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You conjure a fey to fight for you. This works like summon 
animal, except you summon a common creature that has the 
fey trait and whose level is -1. 


Heightened As summon animal. 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 5 


ET 

Traditions divine 

Cast *99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


You conjure a fiend to fight on your behalf. This works like 
summon animal, except you summon a common creature that 
has the fiend trait and whose level is 5 or lower. You cant 
summon a creature unless its alignment is one of your deity's 
preferred alignments (or, if you don't have a deity, is within 
one step of your alignment). At the GM's discretion, some 
deities might restrict specific types of fiends, even if their 
alignments match. 

Heightened As summon animal. 


EQUIPMENT 
am 
9 

HE AGE OF 
~ LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


HF Cone Er HOOK x 
Aliaa aE TET " ee i 
SUMMON GIANT SPELL 5 


SYNESTHESIA SPELL 5 


[mm] 


Traditions primal 

Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


[onem [wem] 


Traditions occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 


You conjure a giant to fight for you. This works like summon 
animal (page 375), except you summon a common creature 
that has the giant trait and whose level is 5 or lower. 
Heightened As summon animal. 


SUMMON PLANT OR FUNGUS 


Í CONJURATION | 

Traditions primal 

Cast *99* material, somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You conjure a plant or fungus to fight for you. This works like 
summon animal (page 375), except you summon a common 
creature that has the plant or fungus trait and whose level 
ISl 

Heightened As summon animal. 


SUNBURST 

| evocarion | rire | cer | posmve | 

Traditions divine, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst 

Saving Throw Reflex 

A powerful globe of searing sunlight explodes in the area, 

dealing 8d10 fire damage to all creatures in the area, plus 8d10 

additional positive damage to undead creatures. Each creature 

in the area must attempt a Reflex save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage. 

Critical Failure The creature takes full damage and becomes 
blinded permanently. 

If the globe overlaps with an area of magical darkness, 

sunburst attempts to counteract the darkness effect. 

Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 1d10, and the 
positive damage against undead increases by 1d10. 


SYNAPTIC PULSE SPELL 5 


[ ENcuawrwenr | iwcapacrrarion | MENTAL | 
Traditions occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot emanation 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round 

You emit a pulsating mental blast that penetrates the minds of 
all enemies in the area. Each enemy in the area must attempt 
a Will save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature is stunned 1. 

Failure The creature is stunned 2. 


Critical Failure The creature is stunned for 1 round. 


SPELL 1 


SPELL 7 


The target's senses are suddenly rewired in unexpected ways, 
causing them to process noises as bursts of color, smells as 
sounds, and so on. This has three effects, and the target must 
attempt a Will save. 
* Due to the distraction, the target must succeed at a DC 
5 flat check each time it uses a concentrate action, or 
the action fails and is wasted. 
* Thetarget's difficulty processing visual input makes all 
creatures and objects concealed from it. 
* The creature has trouble moving, making it clumsy 3 and 
giving it a -10-foot status penalty to its Speeds. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected. 
Success The target is affected for 1 round. 
Failure The target is affected for 1 minute. 
Critical Failure As failure, and the target is stunned 2 as it 
attempts to process the sensory shifts. 
Heightened (9th) You can target up to five creatures. 


TALKING CORPSE 
[wn T wc] 
Traditions divine, occult 
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range touch; Targets 1 corpse 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 10 minutes 
You grant the target corpse a semblance of life, which it uses 
to speak the answers to three questions posed to it. This 
spell calls on the physical body's latent memories rather than 
summoning back the deceased's spirit, so the corpse must 
be mostly intact for the spell to function. The more damage 
the corpse has taken, the more inaccurate or patchwork its 
answers are, and it must have a throat and mouth to speak 
at all. If anyone has previously cast this spell on the corpse 
in the last week, the spell automatically fails. The corpse can 
attempt a Will save to resist answering the questions using 
the statistics of the original creature at its time of death, 
with the following effects. 

Critical Success The target can lie or refuse to answer your 
questions, and the target's spirit haunts you for 24 hours, 
bothering you and causing you to be unable to gain any rest 
for that time. 

Success The target can provide false information or refuse 
to answer your questions. 

Failure The target must answer truthfully, but its answers 
can be brief, cryptic, and repetitive. It can still mislead you 
or attempt to stall so that the spell's duration runs out 
before you can ask all your questions. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the target's answers are 
more direct and less repetitive, though still cryptic. It 
takes a -2 status penalty to Deception checks to deceive 
or mislead you. 


SPELL 4 


TANGLEFOOT CANTRIP 1 


TELEKINETIC PROJECTILE CANTRIP 1 


| arrack | cantaip | conjurarion | PLANT | 


Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 


[ arrack | cup | evocation 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 


A vine covered in sticky sap appears from thin air, flicking 

from your hand and lashing itself to the target. Attempt a spell 

attack against the target. 

Critical Success The target gains the immobilized condition 
and takes a -10-foot circumstance penalty to its Speeds for 
1 round. It can attempt to Escape against your spell DC to 
remove the penalty and the immobilized condition. 

Success The target takes a -10-foot circumstance penalty to 
its Speeds for 1 round. It can attempt to Escape against your 
spell DC to remove the penalty. 

Failure The target is unaffected. 

Heightened (2nd) The effects last for 2 rounds. 

Heightened (Ath) The effects last for 1 minute. 


TANGLING CREEPERS 


| CONJURATION | PLANT | 

Traditions primal 

Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 

Range 500 feet; Area 40-foot burst 

Duration 10 minutes 

Dense, twitching creepers sprout from every surface and fill 
any bodies of water in the area. Any creature moving on the 
land, or Climbing or Swimming within the creepers, takes a 
-10-foot circumstance penalty to its Speeds while in the area. 
Once per round, you can make a vine lash out from any square 
within the expanse of creepers by using a single action, which 
has the concentrate trait. This vine has a 15-foot reach. Make a 
melee spell attack roll against the target; on a success, the vine 
pulls the target into the creepers and makes it immobilized for 
1 round or until the creature Escapes (against your spell DC), 
whichever comes first. 


TELEKINETIC HAUL 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 unattended object of up to 80 Bulk 
with no dimension longer than 20 feet 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You move the target up to 20 feet, potentially suspending it 

in midair. When you Sustain the Spell, you can do so again, or 

you can choose a different eligible target to move. 


TELEKINETIC MANEUVER 
Fc J vaca | ronce | 
Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature 


SPELL 6 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 2 


You hurl a loose, unattended object that is within range and 
that has 1 Bulk or less at the target. Make a spell attack roll 
against the target. If you hit, you deal bludgeoning, piercing, 
or slashing damage-as appropriate for the object you 
hurled—equal to 1d6 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. 
No specific traits or magic properties of the hurled item 
affect the attack or the damage. 

Critical Success You deal double damage. 

Success You deal full damage. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6. 


TELEPATHIC BOND 


UNCOMMON | DIVINATION | MENTAL | 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 
Range touch; Targets you and up to 4 willing creatures 
touched 
Duration 8 hours 
The targets can communicate telepathically with any or all of 
the other targets from any point on the same planet. 


TELEPATHIC DEMAND 
LINGUISTIC 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast *}9 material, somatic, verbal 
Range planetary; Targets 1 creature you've telepathically 
contacted before 
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 
You send the target a message of 25 words or fewer, and it 
can respond immediately with its own message of 25 words 
or fewer. Your message is insidious and has the effect of 
suggestion (page 374), with the message substituting for 
the spoken suggestion. On a successful save, the target is 
temporarily immune for 1 day, and on a critical success, the 
target is temporarily immune for 1 month. You can target a 
creature only if you have previously been in telepathic contact 
with it before, such as via the telepathy spell. 


TELEPATHY 


| bivination |. uNcuistic 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 9 


| MENTAL 


SPELL 4 


Traditions arcane, occult - 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 


Duration 10 minutes 


MENTAL | 


You can communicate telepathically with creatures within 
30 feet. Once you establish a connection by communicating 
with a creature, the communication is two-way. You can 
communicate only with creatures that share a language 
with you. 


With a rush of telekinetic power, you move a foe or something 
they carry. You can attempt to Disarm, Shove, or Trip the 
target using a spell attack roll instead of an Athletics check. 


Heightened (6th) Telepathy loses the linguistic trait. You can 
communicate telepathically with creatures using shared 
mental imagery even if you don't share a language. 


| : 
EQUIPMENT 
-— JO 
arm 
NO 
! THEABEDF 
~ LOST OMENS 


. PLAYING THE 
GAME 


MASTERING 
CRAFT ING 
B TREASURE 


D'ATHFINDE ELEC Er HOOK 3 
im Bs ai os rg— ia e X ell 
TELEPORT SPELL 6 


OMMON | CONJURATION | TELEPORTATION | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range 100 miles; Targets you and up to 4 targets touched, either 
willing creatures or objects roughly the size of a creature. 

You and the targets are instantly transported to any location 

within range, as long as you can identify the location precisely 

both by its position relative to your starting position and 
by its appearance (or other identifying features). Incorrect 
knowledge of the locations appearance usually causes the 
spell to fail, but it could instead lead to teleporting to an 
unwanted location or some other unusual mishap determined 
by the GM. Teleport is not precise over great distances. The 
targets appear at a distance from the intended destination 

equal to roughly 1 percent of the total distance traveled, in a 

direction determined by the GM. For short journeys, this lack 

of precision is irrelevant, but for long distances this could be 
up to 1 mile. 

Heightened (7th) You and the other targets can travel to any 
location within 1,000 miles. 

Heightened (8th) You and the other targets can travel to any 
location on the same planet. If you travel more than 1,000 
miles, you arrive only 10 miles off target. 

Heightened (9th) You and the other targets can travel to any 
location on another planet within the same solar system. 
Assuming you have accurate knowledge of the location's 
position and appearance, you arrive on the new planet 100 
miles off target. 

Heightened (10th) As the 9th-level version, but you and the 
other targets can travel to any planet within the same galaxy. 


TIMESTOP SPELL 10 
ENS 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 

You temporarily stop time for everything but yourself, allowing 
you to use several actions in what appears to others to be no 
time at all. Immediately after casting time stop, you can use up 
to 9 actions in 3 sets of up to 3 actions each. After each set 
of actions, 1 round passes, but only for you, effects specifically 
targeting or affecting you, and effects you create during the 
stoppage. All other creatures and objects are invulnerable to 
your attacks, and you cant target or affect them with anything. 
Once you have finished your actions, time begins to flow again 
for the rest of the world. If you created an effect with a duration 
that extends beyond the time stop's duration, such as wall of 
fire, it immediately affects others again, but it doesn't have any 
of the effects that happen only when you first cast the spell. 


TONGUES SPELL 5 
m 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast *}% somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 1 hour 


UNCOMMON | 


The target can understand all words regardless of language and 
also speak the languages of other creatures. When in a mixed 
group of creatures, each time the target speaks, it can choose 
a creature and speak in a language that creature understands, 
even if the target doesn't know what language that is. 
Heightened (7th) The duration is 8 hours. 


TOUCH OF IDIOCY 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 living creature 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 
You dull the target's mind; the target must attempt a Will save. 
Success The target is unaffected. 

Failure The target is stupefied 2. 

Critical Failure The target is stupefied 4. 


TREE SHAPE 

| puan T povon T ranson | 
Traditions primal 

Cast ‘9> somatic, verbal 
Duration 8 hours 

You transform into a Large tree. Perception checks don't 
reveal your true nature, but a successful Nature or Survival 
check against your spell DC reveals that you appear to be a 
tree that is strangely new to the area. While in tree form, you 
can observe everything around you, but you cant act other 
than to end the spell, and your turn, by using a single action, 
which has the concentrate trait. As a tree, your AC is 20, and 
only status bonuses, status penalties, circumstance bonuses, 
and circumstance penalties affect you. Any successes and 
critical successes you roll on Reflex saves are failures. 


TREE STRIDE SPELL 5 

J UNCOMMON | conjuRATION | PLANT | TELEPORTATION | 

Traditions primal 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

You step into a living tree with a trunk big enough for you 

to fit inside it and instantly teleport to any tree of the same 

species within 5 miles that also has a sufficiently large trunk. 

Once you enter the first tree, you instantly know the rough 

locations of other sufficiently large trees of the same species 

within range and can exit from the original tree, if you prefer. 

You can't carry extradimensional spaces with you; if you 

attempt to do so, the spell fails. 

Heightened (6th) The tree you exit can be up to 50 miles away. 

Heightened (8th) The tree you exit can be up to 500 miles away. 

Heightened (9th) The tree you exit can be anywhere on the 
same planet. 


TRUE SEEING 

| DIVINATION | REVELATION | 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 
Cast *% somatic, verbal 

Duration 10 minutes 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 6 


You see things within 60 feet as they actually are. The GM rolls 
a secret counteract check against any illusion or transmutation 
in the area, but only for the purpose of determining whether 
you see through it (for instance, if the check succeeds against 
a polymorph spell, you can see the creature's true form, but 
you don't end the polymorph spell). 


TRUE STRIKE 


Í DIVINATION | FORTUNE | 
Traditions arcane, occult 


Cast *> verbal 
Duration until the end of your turn 


SPELL 1 


Range touch; Targets 1 creature or object 
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations 
You shroud a creature or object in wards that hide its 
alignment. The target appears to be neutral to all effects that 
would detect its alignment. 


UNFATHOMABLE SONG 


SPELL 9 
| avorrory | emoriow | encHantmenr | Fear J icapacrrarion | MENTAL | 
Traditions occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 


Range 120 feet; Targets up to 5 creatures 
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


A glimpse into the future ensures your next blow strikes true. 
The next time you make an attack roll before the end of your 
turn, roll the attack twice and use the better result. The attack 
ignores circumstance penalties to the attack roll and any flat 
check required due to the target being concealed or hidden. 


TRUE TARGET SPELL 7 


DIVINATION |. FORTUNE | PREDICTION | 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast *> verbal 
Range 60 feet; Targets 4 creatures 
Duration until the start of your next turn 
You delve into the possible futures of the next few seconds to 
understand all the ways your foe might avoid harm, then cast out 
a vision of that future to those around you. Designate a creature. 
The first time each target makes an attack roll against that 
creature during true target's duration, the attacker rolls twice and 
uses the better result. The attacker also ignores circumstance 
penalties to the attack roll and any flat check required due to the 
designated creature being concealed or hidden. 


UNCONTROLLABLE DANCE 


SPELL 8 


Fleeting notes of a strange and unnatural song fill the air, 

overtaking the mind. Each target must attempt a Will save 

when you cast the spell, and again the first time you Sustain 

the Spell each round. A creature needs to attempt only one 

save against the song each round, and you have to keep the 

same targets when you Sustain the Spell. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected, can't be affected on 
subsequent rounds, and is temporarily immune for 1 minute. 

Success The target is unaffected this round, but it can be 
affected on subsequent rounds. 

Failure Roll 1d4 on the table below. 

Critical Failure Roll 1d4+1 on the table below. 


The target is frightened 2. 

The target is confused for 1 round. 

The target is stupefied 4 for 1 round. 

The target is blinded for 1 round. 

The target is stunned for 1 round and stupefied 1 for 
an unlimited duration. 


UNFETTERED PACK 


oc > i m“ 


SPELL 7 


EI 
Traditions arcane, occult 


Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 


[unum] 

Traditions primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets up to 10 creatures 
Duration 1 hour 


The target is overcome with an all-consuming urge to dance. For 

the duration of the spell, the target is flat-footed and can't use 

reactions. While affected, the creature can't use actions with 

the move trait except to dance, using the Stride action to move 

up to half its Speed. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The spell's duration is 3 rounds, and the target must 
spend at least 1 action each turn dancing. 

Failure The spell's duration is 1 minute, and the target must 
spend at least 2 actions each turn dancing. 

Critical Failure The spell's duration is 1 minute, and the target 
must spend all its actions each turn dancing. 


UNDETECTABLE ALIGNMENT 


Traditions divine, occult 
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 


SPELL 2 


You free those who travel alongside you from environmental 

hindrances. Targets don't take circumstance penalties to Speed 

from vegetation, rubble, winds, or other properties of the 

environment, whether or not the environment is magical, and 

they ignore difficult terrain from such environmental properties. 

Heightened (9th) The targets also ignore greater difficult 
terrain from environmental properties. 


UNRELENTING OBSERVATION SPELL 8 


DIVINATION | scRYING | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 100 feet; Area 20-foot burst; Targets 1 creature or 
object tracked and up to 5 other willing creatures 

Duration varies 

This spell grants perfect sight based on scrying, allowing 

several willing targets to track the exact movements or 


| i UIPMENT 


ao” A 
| SPELLS 


w Dg 
Em 


|. THE AGE DF 
. LOST OMENS 


LAYING THE 


P 
GAME 


=~ 


FASURE 


acne mc 


t) CORE RULEBOOK J 
= ee wr" 


position of one creature or object. Choose one target creature 
or object in the area to be tracked. It becomes the sensor for 
the spell. Up to five willing creatures of your choice in the 
area can see a ghostly image of this creature or object when 
it’s out of their sight. They can perceive the creature or object 
perfectly, allowing them to ignore the concealed or invisible 
condition, though physical barriers still provide cover. 

The tracking creatures can see the tracked creature or 
object through all barriers other than lead or running water, 
which block their vision. Distance doesn't matter, though the 
creature or object might move so far away it becomes too 
small to perceive. The tracking creatures don't see any of the 
environment around the target, though they do see any gear a 
creature is wearing or holding, and they can tell if it removes 
objects from its person. 

If the target to be tracked is willing, the duration is 1 hour. If 
you try to track an unwilling creature, the target must attempt 
a Will save. 

Critical Success The creature or object is unaffected. 
Success As described, and the duration is 1 minute. 
Failure As described, and the duration is 1 hour. 


UNSEEN SERVANT 

Ex 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 60 feet 

Duration sustained 

You summon an unseen servant (see the sidebar), which 
you can command as part of Sustaining the Spell. It serves 
you until its Hit Points are reduced to O, at which point the 
spell ends, or until you stop Sustaining the Spell. The unseen 
servant gains the summoned trait. 


SPELL 1 


UNSEEN SERVANT 


Use this stat block for an unseen servant. 


UNSEEN SERVANT 

mna 

Perception +0; darkvision 

Languages — (understands its creator) 

Skills Stealth +8 

Str -4, Dex +2, Con +0, Int -5, Wis +0, Cha +0 

Invisible An unseen servant is invisible, though it 
normally doesn't Sneak, so it is usually only hidden. 

AC 13; Fort +0, Ref +4, Will +0 

HP 4; Immunities disease, mental, non-magical attacks, 
paralysis, poison, precision, unconscious; Resistances 
all damage 5 (except force or ghost touch) 

Speed fly 30 feet 

Force Body An unseen servant's physical body is made 
of force. It can't use attack actions. It can move and 
use Interact actions to do things such as fetch objects, 
open unstuck or unlocked doors, hold chairs, and 
clean. It can't pass through solid objects. 


CREATURE -1 


VAMPIRIC EXSANGUINATION 
EXISTIT 
Traditions arcane, divine, occult 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot cone 

Saving Throw basic Fortitude 
You draw in the blood and life force of other creatures through 
your outstretched arms. You deal 12d6 negative damage to 
living creatures in the area. 

You gain temporary Hit Points equal to half the damage a 
single creature takes from this spell; calculate these temporary 
Hit Points using the creature that took the most damage. You 
lose any remaining temporary Hit Points after 1 minute. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


VAMPIRIC TOUCH 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 living creature 
Saving Throw basic Fortitude 

Your touch leeches the lifeblood out of a target to empower 
yourself. You deal 6d6 negative damage to the target. You gain 
temporary Hit Points equal to half the negative damage the 
target takes (after applying resistances and the like). You lose 
any remaining temporary Hit Points after 1 minute. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


VEIL 

Pisin [ ws 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets up to 10 creatures 
Duration 1 hour 

You disguise the targets as other creatures of the same 
body shape and roughly similar height (within 6 inches) and 
weight (within 50 pounds). The disguise can hide the targets’ 
identities or let them appear to be of another ancestry, but 
it's not precise enough to impersonate specific individuals. The 
spell doesn't change voice, scent, or mannerisms. You choose 
the disguise for each target; for example, you could make one 
target appear to be a dwarf and another an elf. 

Casting veil counts as setting up a disguise for the purpose 
of the Impersonate action. It allows the target to ignore any 
circumstance penalties they might take for being disguised as 
dissimilar creatures, and it gives the targets a +4 status bonus 
to Deception checks to prevent others from seeing through 
their disguises, and add their level even if untrained. You can 
Dismiss any or all of these disguises. 

Heightened (5th) The spell also disguises the targets’ voices 
and scents; it gains the auditory and olfactory traits. 

Heightened (7th) The targets can appear as any creature of 
the same size, even specific individuals. You must have 
seen an individual to reproduce their appearance. The spell 
also disguises the targets’ voices and scents; it gains the 
auditory and olfactory traits. 


SPELL 6 


SPELL 3 


SPELL 4 


VENTRILOQUISM 

Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 10 minutes 

Whenever you speak or make any other sound vocally, you 

can make your vocalization seem to originate from somewhere 

else within 60 feet, and you can change that apparent location 
freely as you vocalize. Any creature that hears the sound can 
attempt to disbelieve your illusion. 

Heightened (2nd) The spell's duration increases to 1 hour, and 
you can also change the tone, quality, and other aspects 
of your voice. Before a creature can attempt to disbelieve 
your illusion, it must actively attempt a Perception check or 
otherwise use actions to interact with the sound. 


SPELL 1 


VIBRANT PATTERN 
| ILLUSION } INCAPACITATION | VISUAL | 
Traditions arcane, occult 
Cast ‘9% material, somatic 
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst 
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 
You create a pattern of lights that pulses with intensity. 
Creatures are dazzled while inside the pattern. 

In addition, a creature must attempt a Will saving throw 
if it’s inside the pattern when you cast it, enters the pattern, 
ends its turn within the pattern, or uses a Seek or Interact 


SPELL 6 


action on the pattern. A creature currently blinded by the 

pattern doesn't need to attempt new saving throws. 

Success The creature is unaffected. 

Failure The creature is blinded by the pattern. If it exits 
the pattern, it can attempt a new save to recover from 
the blinded condition at the end of each of its turns, to a 
maximum duration of 1 minute. 

Critical Failure The creature is blinded for 1 minute. 


VISIONS OF DANGER 

| AUDITORY | ILLUSION | 

Traditions occult 

Cast *99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 500 feet; Area 30-foot burst 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 
An illusion of horrific creatures fills the spell's area. The 
creatures look like Tiny swarming monsters with a specific 
appearance of your choice, such as Hellish flies or animated 
saw blades. The burst deals 8d8 mental damage (basic Will 
save) to each creature that's inside the burst when it's created, 
enters the burst, or starts its turn inside the burst. A creature 
that critically succeeds at its Will save can immediately 
attempt to disbelieve the illusion. A creature that tries to 
Interact with the monsters or observes one with a Seek action 
can attempt to disbelieve the illusion. Creatures that disbelieve 
the illusion take no damage from the illusion thereafter. 
Heightened (+1) The mental damage increases by 1d8. 


SPELL 7 


SPELLS 


fas vm (DINE tse e 

JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 3% 

a ti iari lS A ee eel 
VITAL BEACON SPELL 4 


| HEALING | necromancy | PosiTiVE ff 

Traditions divine, primal 

Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal) 

Duration until your next daily preparations 

Vitality radiates outward from you, allowing others to 

supplicate and receive healing. Once per round, either you 

or an ally can use an Interact action to supplicate and lay 

hands upon you to regain Hit Points. Each time the beacon 

heals someone, it decreases in strength. It restores 4d10 Hit 

Points to the first creature, 4d8 Hit Points to the second, 4d6 

Hit Points to the third, and 4d4 Hit Points to the fourth, after 

which the spell ends. You can have only one vital beacon 

active at a time. 

Heightened (+1) The beacon restores one additional die of Hit 
Points each time it heals, using the same die size as the 
others for that step. 


VOLCANIC ERUPTION 
[omo [nc] 
Traditions primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Area 5-foot radius, 80-foot-tall cylinder 
Saving Throw Reflex 

The ground opens up, spraying a column of lava high into the 
air in a vertical cylinder, dealing 14d6 fire damage to creatures 
in the area. The lava rapidly cools and encases creatures in 
the area. A creature encased in rock is clumsy 1 and takes 
a -10-foot status penalty to its Speeds. All normal terrain 
is difficult terrain to a flying creature, and such creatures 
immediately descend 20 feet the moment they're encased, 
but they don't take damage from this fall. A creature encased 
in rock can attempt to Escape against your spell DC to end the 
effect. Otherwise, the creature remains encased until it takes 
a total of 50 damage, freeing it from the rock. 

Additionally, creatures in the area and those within 5 feet of 
the lava column automatically take 3d6 fire damage from the 
intense heat, regardless of the results of their saving throws. 
Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage and is encased. 

Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is encased. 

Heightened (+1) The damage in the area increases by 2d6, and 
the damage from the intense heat increases by 1d6. 


WAIL OF THE BANSHEE SPELL 9 
Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Area 40-foot emanation 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

Your scream chills the souls of enemies that hear it. Each 
living enemy in the area takes 8d10 negative damage and 
must attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes full damage. 


SPELL 7 


Failure The creature takes full damage and is drained 1d4. 
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is 
drained 4. 


WALL OF FIRE 

[ eom [ rac ] 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 995 material, somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet 

Duration 1 minute 

You raise a blazing wall that burns creatures passing through 
it. You create either a 5-foot-thick wall of flame in a straight 
line up to 60 feet long and 10 feet high, or a 5-foot-thick, 
10-foot-radius ring of flame with the same height. The wall 
stands vertically in either form; if you wish, the wall can be of 
a shorter length or height. Everything on each side of the wall 
is concealed from creatures on the opposite side. Any creature 
that crosses the wall or is occupying the wall's area at the 
start of its turn takes 4d6 fire damage. 

Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 1d6. 


WALL OF FORCE 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast 995 material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet 

Duration 1 minute 

You form an invisible wall of pure magical force up to 50 
feet long and up to 20 feet high. The wall has no discernible 
thickness. You must create the wall in an unbroken open space 
so its edges don't pass through any creatures or objects, or 
the spell is lost. The wall has AC 10, Hardness 30, and 60 Hit 
Points, and it's immune to critical hits and precision damage. 
The wall blocks physical effects from passing through it, and 
because it's made of force, it blocks incorporeal and ethereal 
creatures as well. Teleportation effects can pass through the 
barrier, as can visual effects (since the wall is invisible). 

Wall of force is immune to counteracting effects of its 
level or lower, but the wall is automatically destroyed by 
a disintegrate spell of any level or by contact with a rod of 
cancellation or sphere of annihilation. 

Heightened (+2) The Hit Points of the wall increases by 20. 


WALL OF ICE SPELL 5 
Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 995 material, somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet 

Duration 1 minute 

You sculpt an ice barrier that blocks sight and, once shattered, 
freezes foes. You create either a 1-foot-thick wall of ice in a 
straight line up to 60 feet long and 10 feet high (the wall doesn't 
have to be vertical, but it must be anchored on both sides to a 
solid surface) or a 1-foot-thick, 10-foot radius hemisphere of ice. 
The ice that makes up the wall is opaque. If you wish, the wall 
can be of a smaller length, height, or radius. You must create 


SPELL 4 


SPELL 6 


the wall in an unbroken open space so its edges don't pass 
through any creatures or objects, or the spell is lost. 

Each 10-foot-by-10-foot section of the wall has AC 10, 
Hardness 10, and 40 Hit Points, and it's immune to critical 
hits, cold damage, and precision damage. A section also has 
weakness to fire 15; a section of the wall destroyed by fire 
melts, evaporating into water and steam. A section destroyed 
by means other than fire leaves behind a chilling mass of ice 
that is difficult terrain and deals 2d6 cold damage to any 
creature passing through it. 

Heightened (+2) The Hit Points of each section of the wall 
increase by 10, and the cold damage dealt to creatures 
crossing a destroyed section increases by 1d6. 


WALL OF STONE 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet 

You shape a wall of solid stone. You create a 1-inch-thick wall 
of stone up to 120 feet long, and 20 feet high. You can shape 
the wall’s path, placing each 5 feet of the wall on the border 
between squares. The wall doesn't need to stand vertically, 
so you can use it to form a bridge or set of stairs, for example. 
You must conjure the wall in an unbroken open space so its 
edges dont pass through any creatures or objects, or the 
spell is lost. 

Each 10-foot-by-10-foot section of the wall has AC 10, 
Hardness 14, and 50 Hit Points, and it's immune to critical 
hits and precision damage. A destroyed section of the wall 
can be moved through, but the rubble created from it is 
difficult terrain. 

Heightened (+2) The Hit Points of each section of the wall 

increase by 15. 


WALL OF THORNS 

Traditions primal 

Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 60 feet 

Duration 1 minute 


SPELL 5 


SPELL 3 


Heightened (+1) The Hit Points of each section of the wall 
increase by 5, and the piercing damage increases by 1d4. 


WALL OF WIND SPELL 3 
Traditions arcane, primal 
Cast *995 material, somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet 
Duration 1 minute 
You create a barrier of gusting winds that hinders anything 
moving through it. The wall of swirling winds is 5 feet thick, 
60 feet long, and 30 feet high. The wall stands vertically, but 
you can shape its path. Though the wall of wind distorts the 
air, it does not hamper sight. The wall has the following effects. 
* Ammunition from physical ranged attacks—such 
as arrows, bolts, sling bullets, and other objects of 
similar size-can't pass through the wall. Attacks with 
bigger ranged weapons, such as javelins, take a -2 
circumstance penalty to their attack rolls if their paths 
pass through the wall. Massive ranged weapons and | 
spell effects that don't create physical objects pass i PLAYING THE 
through the wall with no penalty. Nee GAME 
* The wall is difficult terrain to creatures attempting to 
move overland through it. Gases, including creatures 
in gaseous form, can't pass through the wall. 
* Acreature that attempts to fly through the wall using 
a move action must attempt a Fortitude save. 
Critical Success The creature can move through the wall 
normally this turn. 
Success The flying creature can move through the wall this 
turn, but the wall is difficult terrain. 

Failure The wall stops the movement of the flying creature, and 
any remaining movement from its current action is wasted. 
Critical Failure As failure, and the creature is pushed 10 feet 

away from the wall. 


WANDERER'S GUIDE 


Tradition divine, occult 
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 
Duration until your next daily preparations 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
C9 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


SPELL 3 


Over the course of a minute, you cause a thick wall of thorny 
brambles to grow from the ground. You create a 5-foot-thick 
wall of brambles and thorns in a straight line up to 60 feet 
long and 10 feet high. You must create the wall in an unbroken 
open space so its edges don’t pass through any creatures or 
objects, or the spell is lost. The wall stands vertically. If you 
wish, the wall can be of a shorter length or height. Everything 
on each side of the wall has cover from creatures on the 
opposite side, and the wall's spaces are difficult terrain. For 
every move action a creature uses to enter at least one of the 
wall's spaces, that creature takes 3d4 piercing damage. 

Each 10-foot-by-10-foot section of the wall has AC 10, 
Hardness 10, and 20 Hit Points. It's immune to critical hits 
and precision damage. A destroyed section can be moved 
through freely. 


You call upon the beyond to guide your route. When you Cast 
this Spell, choose a destination; you receive an inspired route 
to that destination, allowing you and allies who travel overland 
with you to reduce the movement penalty from difficult terrain 
by half for the duration, as long as you don't deviate from the 
inspired route. This doesn't have any effect on movement during 
encounters. If you use this ability again before the duration is 
over, this effect ends and is replaced by that of the new route. 


WARP MIND SPELL 7 
EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | INCAPACITATION | MENTAL | 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will 


ne veny Monies PL A aser ntt 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 4 
ea aia iaria alll 


You scramble a creature’s mental faculties and sensory input. 

The target must attempt a Will saving throw. Regardless of 

the result of that save, the target is then temporarily immune 

for 10 minutes. Warp mind's effects happen instantly, so dispel 

magic and other effects that counteract spells can’t counteract 

them. However, alter reality, miracle, primal phenomenon, 

restoration, or wish can still counteract the effects. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target spends the first action on its next turn 
with the confused condition. 

Failure The target is confused for 1 minute. 

Critical Failure The target is confused permanently. 


WATER BREATHING 

Traditions arcane, divine, primal 

Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal) 

Range 30 feet; Targets up to 5 creatures 

Duration 1 hour 

The targets can breathe underwater. 

Heightened (3rd) The duration increases to 8 hours. 

Heightened (4th) The duration increases to until your next 
daily preparations. 


WATER WALK 

EE 

Traditions arcane, divine, primal 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 10 minutes 

The target can walk on the surface of water and other liquids 

without falling through. It can go underwater if it wishes, but 

in that case it must Swim normally. This spell doesn't grant the 

ability to breathe underwater. 

Heightened (Ath) The spell's range increases to 30 feet, the 
duration increases to 1 hour, and you can target up to 
10 creatures. 


WEAPON OF JUDGMENT 
EZTIESI 
Traditions divine 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal; Requirements You have a deity. 
Range 100 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 1 minute 

An immense weapon of force appears, hovering in the air above 
the target. The weapon has the ghostly visual appearance of 
your deity's favored weapon. Name war or peace when you 
cast this spell. 

If you name "war," mentally choose one creature. This must 
be a creature both you and the target can see. The target 
instinctively knows which creature this is. At the end of each 
of the target's turns, if the target did not use a hostile action 
against the creature you chose during that turn, the weapon 
Strikes the target. 

If you name "peace," mentally choose up to five allies. The 
target instinctively knows who those allies are. The weapon 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 2 


SPELL 9 


Strikes the target each time the target uses a hostile action 
against you or one of your allies. The weapon Strikes only 
once per action, even if the action targets multiple allies (such 
as for a fireball or a Whirlwind Strike). 

Strikes with the weapon are melee weapon attacks, but they 
use your spell attack modifier. Regardless of its appearance, 
the weapon deals force damage equal to 3d10 plus your 
spellcasting ability modifier. The weapon takes a multiple 
attack penalty, which increases throughout the target's turn, 
but its penalty is separate from yours. 

When the weapon Strikes, you can deal damage of the 
normal damage type of the weapon instead of force damage 
(or any of the available damage types, for a versatile weapon). 
No other statistics or attributes of the weapon apply, and even 
aranged weapon attacks adjacent creatures only. A weapon of 
judgment is a weapon for the purposes of triggers, resistances, 
and so forth. 

The weapon doesn't take up space, grant flanking, or have 
any other attributes a creature would. The weapon can't make 
any attack other than its Strike, and feats or spells that affect 
weapons do not apply to this weapon. 

Heightened (10th) The force damage increases by 1d10. 


WEAPON STORM SPELL 4 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast *}% somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot cone or 10-foot emanation 

Saving Throw Reflex 

You swing a weapon you're holding, and the weapon magically 

multiplies into duplicates that swipe at all creatures in either 

a cone or an emanation. This flurry deals four dice of damage 

to creatures in the area. This damage has the same type as 

the weapon and uses the same die size. Determine the die size 

as if you were attacking with the weapon; for instance, if you 

were wielding a two-hand weapon in both hands, you'd use its 

two-hand damage die. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The target takes half damage. 

Failure The target takes full damage. 

Critical Failure The target takes double damage and is subject 
to the weapon's critical specialization effect. 

Heightened (+1) Add another damage die. 


WEB 

ECT 

Traditions arcane, primal 

Cast 995 material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Area 10-foot burst 
Duration 1 minute 

You create a sticky web in the area that impedes creatures' 
movement each time they try to move through it. Squares 
filled with the web are difficult terrain. Each square can be 
cleared of the web by a single attack or effect that deals at 
least 5 slashing damage or 1 fire damage. A square has AC 5, 
and it automatically fails its saving throws. 


SPELL 2 


Each time a creature in the web begins to use a move action 
or enters the web during a move action, it must attempt an 
Athletics check or Reflex save against your spell DC to avoid 
taking a circumstance penalty to its Speeds or becoming 
immobilized. A creature that gets out of the web ceases to 
take a circumstance penalty to its Speed from the web. 
Critical Success The creature is unaffected, and it doesn't need 

to attempt further Athletics checks or saving throws against 

the web this turn. If it used an Athletics check, it clears the 
web from every square it leaves after leaving the square. 

Success The creature is unaffected during its action. If it used 
an Athletics check, it clears the web from every square it 
leaves after leaving the square. 

Failure The creature takes a -10-foot circumstance penalty to 
its Speeds until the start of its next turn. 

Critical Failure The creature is immobilized until the start of 
its next turn, after which it takes a -10-foot circumstance 
penalty to its Speeds for 1 round. It can attempt to Escape 
to remove its immobilized condition. 

Heightened (Ath) The spell's area increases to a 20-foot burst, 
and its range increases to 60 feet. 


WEIRD 


| DEATH f EMOTION | FEAR | ILLUSION | MENTAL 

Traditions arcane, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Targets any number of creatures 

Saving Throw Will 

You fill the targets' minds with terrifying images of fearsome 

creatures, each drawn from the targets' worst fears. Only the 

targets can see their assailants. Each target takes 16d6 mental 

damage and must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes half damage and is frightened 1. 

Failure The target takes full damage and is frightened 2. 

Critical Failure The target is so afraid, it might instantly die. 
It must attempt a Fortitude saving throw. If the target 
succeeds, it takes double damage and is frightened 2, 
and it's also fleeing until the end of its next turn unless it 
critically succeeded. If it fails, it is reduced to O Hit Points 
and dies. 


SPELL 9 


WIND WALK 


| AIR | TRANSMUTATION | 
Traditions primal 

Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range touch; Targets you and up to five creatures touched 
Duration 8 hours 

When you cast this spell, each target transforms into a vaguely 
cloud-like form and is picked up by a wind moving in the 
direction of your choice. You can change the wind's direction by 
using a single action, which has the concentrate trait. The wind 
carries the targets at a Speed of 20 miles per hour, but if any of 
the targets make an attack, Cast a Spell, come under attack, or 
otherwise enter encounter mode, the spell ends for all targets 
just after they roll initiative, and they drift gently to the ground. 


SPELL 8 


i 
| 


WISH 
Traditions arcane 
Cast *}% material, somatic, verbal 
You state a wish, making your greatest desire come true. A 
wish spell can produce any one of the following effects. 
* Duplicate any spell from the arcane list of 9th level or 
lower to which you have access. 
* Duplicate any spell from another spell list of 7th level 
or lower. It must be common or you must have access. 
* Produce any effect whose power level is in line with 
the above effects. 
* Reverse certain effects that refer to the wish spell. 
The GM might allow you to try using wish to produce 
greater effects than these, but doing so might be dangerous 
or the spell might have only a partial effect. 


ZEALOUS CONVICTION 


| EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL | 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets up to 10 willing creatures 

Duration 10 minutes 

You bypass your targets' rational minds, instilling them with 

unshakable conviction and zeal. The targets each gain 12 

temporary Hit Points and a +2 status bonus to Will saves 

against mental effects, as their faith overrides the signals from 

their own bodies and minds. If you tell a target to do something, 

it must comply with your request, though if it would normally 

find the task repugnant, it can attempt a Will save at the end 

of its turn each round due to the cognitive dissonance. On a 

success, it ends the spell's effects on itself entirely. 

Heightened (9th) The temporary Hit Points increase to 18, and 
the status bonus to Will saves increases to +3. 


ZONE OF TRUTH 


[ UNCOMMON | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL | 

Traditions divine, occult 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Area 20-foot burst 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 10 minutes 

You designate an area in which creatures are compelled to speak 
only truth. Creatures within or entering the area have difficulty 
lying. Each potentially affected creature must attempt a Will 
save when the spell is cast or when the creature first enters the 
area. It uses the results of this initial save if it leaves and reenters 
the area. Affected creatures are aware of this enchantment; 
therefore, they can avoid answering questions to which they 
would normally respond with a lie, or they can be evasive as long 
as they remain within the boundaries of the truth. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes a -2 status penalty to Deception checks. 
Failure The target can't speak any deliberate and intentional 
lies, and it takes a -2 status penalty to Deception checks. 
Critical Failure The target can't speak any deliberate and intentional 

lies and takes a -4 status penalty to Deception checks. 


SPELL 6 


SPELL 3 


EQUIPMENT 


| SPELLS 


NES Jo. 


m 


f 
| 


HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


lee ne unm 


ete v =e (DII epe ge E = ^ 
JATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4j 
—Ó2 — ya E e e | 


FOCUS SPELLS 


Some classes gain special spells that they cast using Focus Points instead of spell slots. 
These focus spells are listed below, organized by class. The full rules for casting focus 


spells appear on page 300. 


$MM ig gt 3 


BARD 
Bards can gain the following composition spells. This 
section also includes their composition cantrips. 


ALLEGRO CANTRIP 7 
Cast *9 verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 ally 

Duration 1 round 

You perform rapidly, speeding up your ally. The ally becomes 
quickened and can use the additional action to Strike, Stride, 
or Step. 


COUNTER PERFORMANCE FOCUS 1 
UNCOMMON | BARD | COMPOSITION | ENCHANTMENT | FORTUNE | went | 

Cast 2 somatic or verbal; Trigger You or an ally within 60 
feet rolls a saving throw against an auditory or visual effect. 

Area 60-foot emanation 

Your performance protects you and your allies. Roll a 

Performance check for a type you know: an auditory 

performance if the trigger was auditory, or a visual one 

for a visual trigger. You and allies in the area can use the 

better result between your Performance check and the 

saving throw. 


DIRGE OF DOOM CANTRIP 3 
mopom 
cm 


Cast 3 verbal 


Area 30-foot emanation 

Duration 1 round 

Foes within the area are frightened 1. They can't reduce their 
frightened value below 1 while they remain in the area. 


FOCUS 10 
ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL} 


FATAL ARIA 

[uon ro [memor voa [rum] 

Cast *> verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

You perform music so perfect that the target may die of joy 

or sorrow. Once targeted, the creature becomes temporarily 

immune for 1 minute. The effect of the spell depends on the 

target's level and current Hit Points. 

16th or Lower The target dies instantly. 

17th If the target has 50 Hit Points or fewer, it dies instantly; 
otherwise, it drops to O Hit Points and becomes dying 1. 

18th or Higher The target takes 50 damage. If this brings it to 
O Hit Points, it dies instantly. 


HOUSE OF IMAGINARY WALLS CANTRIP 5 
UNCOMMON | BARD | cANTRIP | composition | ILLUSION | visuaL | 

Cast *9 somatic 

Range touch 

Duration 1 round 

You mime an invisible 10-foot-by-10-foot wall adjacent to you 

and within your reach. The wall is solid to those creatures 

that don't disbelieve it, even incorporeal creatures. You and 

your allies can voluntarily believe the wall exists to continue 

to treat it as solid, for instance to climb onto it. A creature 

that disbelieves the illusion is temporarily immune to your 

house of imaginary walls for 1 minute. The wall doesn't block 

creatures that didn't see your visual performance, nor does it 

block objects. The wall has AC 10, Hardness equal to double 

the spell's level, and HP equal to quadruple the spell's level. 


INSPIRE COMPETENCE CANTRIP 1 


UNCOMMON | BARD | CANTRIP | COMPOSITION | EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL 


Range 60 feet; Targets 1 ally 
Duration 1 round 
Your encouragement inspires your ally to succeed at a task. 
This counts as having taken sufficient preparatory actions to 
Aid your ally on a skill check of your choice, regardless of the 
circumstances. When you later use the Aid reaction, you can 
roll Performance instead of the normal skill check, and if you 
roll a failure, you get a success instead. If you are legendary in 
Performance, you automatically critically succeed. 

The GM might rule that you can't use this ability if the act 
of encouraging your ally would interfere with the skill check 
(such as a check to Sneak quietly or maintain a disguise). 


INSPIRE COURAGE CANTRIP 1 
CANTRIP | coMPOSrTION | EMOTION] ENCHANTMENT MENTAL [ 

Cast *9 verbal 

Area 60-foot emanation 

Duration 1 round 

You inspire yourself and your allies with words or tunes 

of encouragement. You and all allies in the area gain a +1 

status bonus to attack rolls, damage rolls, and saves against 

fear effects. 


INSPIRE DEFENSE 


Ez BARD | canraip | composiTion [vorn 
Cast *9 verbal 


Area 60-foot emanation 
Duration 1 round 


CANTRIP 2 


[eciam | wena 


You inspire yourself and your allies to protect themselves 
more effectively. You and all allies in the area gain a +1 status 
bonus to AC and saving throws, as well as resistance equal to 
half the spell’s level to physical damage. 


INSPIRE HEROICS 
MON || BARD | ENCHANTMENT | METAMAGIC | 
Cast & verbal 
You call upon your muse to greatly increase the benefits 
you provide with your inspire courage or inspire defense 
composition. If your next action is to cast inspire courage or 
inspire defense, attempt a Performance check. The DC is usually 
a very hard DC of a level equal to that of the highest-level 
target of your composition, but the GM can assign a different 
DC based on the circumstances. The effect of your inspire 
courage or inspire defense composition depends on the result 
of your check. 
Critical Success The status bonus from your inspire courage or 
inspire defense increases to +3. 
Success The status bonus from inspire courage or inspire 
defense increases to *2. 
Failure Your inspire courage or inspire defense provides only 
its normal bonus of +1, but you don't spend the Focus Point 
for casting this spell. 


LINGERING COMPOSITION 

| UNCOMMON | BARD | ENCHANTMENT | METAMAGIC 

Cast & verbal 

You add a flourish to your composition to extend its benefits. 

If your next action is to cast a cantrip composition with a 

duration of 1 round, attempt a Performance check. The DC 

is usually a standard-difficulty DC of a level equal to the 

highest-level target of your composition, but the GM can 

assign a different DC based on the circumstances. The effect 

depends on the result of your check. 

Critical Success The composition lasts 4 rounds. 

Success The composition lasts 3 rounds. 

Failure The composition lasts 1 round, but you don't spend the 
Focus Point for casting this spell. 


LOREMASTER'S ETUDE 


| UNCOMMON | BARD | DIVINATION | FORTUNE | 

Cast & somatic; Trigger You or an ally within range attempts 
a skill check to Recall Knowledge 

Range 30 feet; Targets you or the triggering ally 

You call upon your muses deep mysteries, granting the 

target a greater ability to think and recall information. Roll 

the triggering Recall Knowledge skill check twice and use the 


better result. 


SOOTHING BALLAD 


| BARD | COMPOSITION | EMOTION | 
somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets you and up to 9 allies 

You draw upon your muse to soothe your allies. Choose one of 


the following three effects: 


FOCUS 4 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 7 


| HEALING | mentar f 


ENCHANTMENT 


* The spell attempts to counteract fear effects on 
the targets. 
* The spell attempts to counteract effects imposing 
paralysis on the targets. 
* The spell restores 7d8 Hit Points to the targets. 
Heightened (+1) When used to heal, soothing ballad restores 
1d8 more Hit Points. 


TRIPLE TIME 
UNCOMMON | BARD 

somatic 

Area 60-foot emanation 

Duration 1 round 

You dance at a lively tempo, speeding your allies' movement. 

You and all allies in the area gain a *10-foot status bonus to all 

Speeds for 1 round. 


CHAMPION 


Champions can gain the following devotion spells. 


FOCUS 6 


fails a saving throw against an effect that doesn't affect you. 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 ally 


You form a link with an ally, allowing you to take harm in their 
stead. All the effects of the hit or failed save are applied to 
you instead of the ally. For example, if the target critically 
fails a saving throw against a fireball, you would take double 
damage. These effects ignore any resistances, immunities, or 
other abilities you have that might mitigate them in any way, 
although those of the target apply before you take the effect. 


HERO'S DEFIANCE FOCUS 10 


UNCOMMON | CHAMPION | HEALING | NECROMANCY 


POSITIVE 
Cast © verbal; Trigger An attack mm you to O Hit Points. 
You shout in defiance, filling you with a sudden burst of 
healing. Just before applying the attack’s damage, you 
recover 10d4+20 Hit Points. If this is enough to prevent the 
attack from bringing you to O Hit Points, you don't become 
unconscious or dying. Either way, cheating death is difficult, 
and you can't use hero's defiance again until you Refocus or 
the next time you prepare. Hero's defiance cannot be used 
against effects with the death trait or that would leave no 
remains, such as disintegrate. 


LAY ON HANDS 
"UNCOMMON | CHAMPION NECROMANCY | POSITIVE 
somatic 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing living creature or 1 undead creature 
Your hands become infused with positive energy, healing a 
living creature or damaging an undead creature with a touch. 
If you use lay on hands on a willing living target, you restore 
6 Hit Points; if the target is one of your allies, they also gain 
a +2 status bonus to AC for 1 round. Against an undead 


FOCUS 1 


| HEALING | necromancy 


EQUIPMENT 
a 2,0.’ 
SPELLS 
NOD 
HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


" 


EASURE 


NDI 


target, you deal 1d6 damage and it must attempt a basic 

Fortitude save; if it fails, it also takes a -2 status penalty to 

AC for 1 round. 

Heightened (+1) The amount of healing increases by 6, and the 
damage to an undead target increases by 1d6. 


LITANY AGAINST SLOTH 

| UNCOMMON | CHAMPION | Evocation | coop | Litany | 
Cast *> verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 evil creature 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round 

Your litany rails against the sin of sloth, interfering with the 
target's ability to react. The target must attempt a Will save. 
A particularly slothful creature, such as a sloth demon, uses 
the outcome one degree of success worse than the result of 
its saving throw. The target becomes temporarily immune to 
all of your litanies for 1 minute. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target can't use reactions. 

Failure The target can't use reactions and is slowed 1. 

Critical Failure The target can't use reactions and is slowed 2. 


LITANY AGAINST WRATH FOCUS 3 
UNCOMMON | CHAMPION | Evocation | coop. | LITANY | 

Cast * verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 evil creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round 


FOCUS 5 


Your litany rails against the sin of wrath, punishing the target 
for attacking good creatures. The target must attempt a Will 
save. A particularly wrathful creature, such as a wrath demon, 
uses the outcome one degree of success worse than the result 
of its saving throw. The target then becomes temporarily 
immune to all of your litanies for 1 minute. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The first time the target uses an action that deals 
damage to at least one good creature, the target takes 
3d6 good damage. 

Failure Each time the target uses an action that deals damage to 
at least one good creature, the target takes 3d6 good damage. 

Critical Failure The target is enfeebled 2. Each time it uses an 
action that deals damage to at least one good creature, the 
target takes 3d6 good damage. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6. 


LITANY OF RIGHTEOUSNESS 


FOCUS 7 


| 


Range 30 feet; Targets 1 evil creature 
Duration 1 round 


Your litany denounces an evildoer, rendering it susceptible 
to the powers of good. The target gains weakness 7 to good. 
The target then becomes temporarily immune to all of your 
litanies for 1 minute. 

Heightened (+1) The weakness increases by 1. 


CLERIC 


Clerics can gain the following domain spells by selecting 
the Domain Initiate or Advanced Domain feat. 


AGILE FEET 

| UNCOMMON | CLERIC | TRANSMUTATION | 
Domain travel 

Cast *9 somatic 

Duration until the end of the current turn 
The blessings of your god make your feet faster and your 
movements more fluid. You gain a *5-foot status bonus to 
your Speed and ignore difficult terrain. As part of casting 
agile feet, you can Stride or Step; you can instead Burrow, 
Climb, Fly, or Swim if you have the appropriate Speed. 


APPEARANCE OF WEALTH FOCUS 1 

J UNCOMMON | ceric | ILLUSION | 

Domain wealth 

Cast 99 material, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Area 5-foot burst 

Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You create a brief vision of immense wealth filling the 

spell's area. Each creature within 20 feet of the area that 

could be enticed by material wealth must attempt a Will 

saving throw. A creature that enters the area automatically 

disbelieves the illusion, and disbelieving the illusion ends 

any fascinated condition imposed by the spell. As long as 

you Sustain the Spell, other creatures react to the treasure 

like they would any other illusion, but they are not at risk of 

becoming fascinated. 

Critical Success The creature disbelieves the illusion and is 
unaffected by it. 

Success The creature is fascinated by the wealth until it has 
completed its first action on its next turn. 

Failure The creature is fascinated by the illusion. 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 4 


Cast *99 material, somatic 

Range 15 feet; Targets 1 item or work of art that fits entirely 
within the range 

Duration 10 minutes 


You transform the target to make it match your artisanal 
and artistic vision. If you have expert proficiency in 
Crafting, the item grants a *1 item bonus to attack rolls 
if it's a weapon or skill checks if it's a skill tool. The target 
is a beautiful and impressive piece for its new quality, but 
the effect is obviously temporary, so its monetary value 
doesn't change. 
When you cast this spell, any previous artistic flourish you 
had cast ends. 
Heightened (7th) If you have master proficiency in Crafting, 
the item grants a *2 item bonus instead. 
Heightened (10th) If you have legendary proficiency in 
Crafting, the item grants a *3 item bonus instead. 


ATHLETIC RUSH 

UNCOMMON | CLERIC | TRANSMUTATION 
Domain might 
Cast *9 somatic 
Duration 1 round 
Your body fills with physical power and skill. You gain a +10- 
foot status bonus to Speed and a +2 status bonus to Athletics 
checks. As a part of Casting this Spell, you can use a Stride, 
Leap, Climb, or Swim action. The spell's bonuses apply during 
that action. 


BIT OF LUCK 

(UNCOMMON | CLERIC | DIVINATION || FORTUNE 
Domain luck 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature 

Duration 1 minute 

You tilt the scales of luck slightly to protect a creature from 
disaster. When the target would attempt a saving throw, it 
can roll twice and use the better result. Once it does this, the 
spell ends. 

If you cast bit of luck again, any previous bit of luck you 
cast that’s still in effect ends. After a creature has been 
targeted with bit of luck, it becomes temporarily immune for 
24 hours. 


FOCUS 1 


c 


BLIND AMBITION ——— FOCUS 1 


UNCOMMON | CLERIC Í EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL | 

Domain ambition 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 10 minutes 

You strengthen a target's ambition, increase its resentment of 

allies, and make its allegiances more susceptible to change. 

The target must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes a -1 status penalty to its saving 
throws and other defenses against attempts to Coerce it, 
Request something of it, or use mental effects to convince 
it to do something (such as a suggestion spell). This penalty 
applies only if the target is being encouraged to advance its 
own ambitions. 

Failure As success, but the penalty is -2. 

Critical Failure The target is overcome with ambition, taking 

whatever actions would advance its own agenda over those 

of anyone else, even without attempts to convince it. 


CAPTIVATING ADORATION FOCUS 4 


| UNCOMMON | cLERIC | EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL | visuau | 


Domain passion 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 15-foot emanation 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 


You become intensely entrancing, and creatures are distracted 
by you as long as they remain within the area. You can exclude 
any creatures you choose from the effects. 


EQUIPMENT 
$ AIA 
| SPELLS 
ROO 

HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 
GAME 


aI m (DONC Ar e SET SO ss 5 
I. THFIND CORE RULEBOOK 42 
E aat i aser itta ra ar ret | 


When a creature enters the area for the first time, it must 
attempt a Will saving throw. If a creature leaves and reenters, 
it uses the results of its original save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected and temporarily 
immune for 1 hour. 

Success The creature is fascinated with you for its next action, 
then is temporarily immune for 1 hour. 

Failure The creature is fascinated with you. 

Critical Failure The creature is fascinated with you, and its 
attitude toward you improves by one step. 


Heightened (+1) Increase the size of the emanation by 15 feet. 


CHARMING TOUCH FOCUS 1 


UNCOMMON | CLERIC | EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | INCAPACITATION |. MENTAL | 


Domain passion 

Cast *> somatic 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature that could find you attractive 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 10 minutes 


You infuse your target with attraction, causing it to act 
friendlier toward you. The target attempts a Will save. It gains 
a +4 circumstance bonus to this save if you or your allies 
recently threatened or were hostile to it. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected and aware you tried 
to charm it. 

Success The target is unaffected but thinks your spell was 
something harmless instead of charming touch, unless it 
identifies the spell (see Identifying Spells on page 305). 

Failure The target's attitude becomes friendly toward you. If it 
was friendly, it becomes helpful. It can't use hostile actions 
against you. 

Critical Failure The target is helpful and can't use hostile 
actions against you. 

You can Dismiss the spell. If you use hostile actions against 
the target, the spell ends. After the spell ends, the target 
doesnt necessarily realize it was charmed unless its 
friendship with you or the actions you convinced it to take 
clash with its expectations, which could potentially allow 
you to convince the target to continue being your friend via 
mundane means. 


CLOAK OF SHADOW 
FXTHESHESTHETTUETZ) 
Domain darkness 

Cast *9 somatic 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 1 minute 

You drape the target in a mantle of swirling shadows that 
make it harder to see. The cloak reduces bright light within 
a 20-foot emanation to dim light. This is a form of magical 
darkness and can therefore overcome non-magical light 
or attempt to counteract magical light as described on 
page 458. 

The target can use concealed condition gained from the 
shadows to Hide, though observant creatures can still follow 
the moving aura of shadow, making it difficult for the target 
to become completely undetected. The target can use an 


FOCUS 1 


Interact action to remove the cloak and leave it behind as 
a decoy, where it remains, reducing light for the rest of the 
spell's duration. If anyone picks up the cloak after it's been 
removed by the original target, the cloak evaporates and the 
spell ends. 


COMMANDING LASH 

J UNCOMMON | ceric | ENCHANTMENT 

Domain tyranny 

Cast 9 verbal 

Requirements Your most recent action dealt damage to a 
target. 

Range 100 feet; Targets A creature you dealt damage to on 
your most recent action. 

Saving Throw Will; Duration until the end of the target's next turn 

With the threat of more pain, you compel a creature you've 

recently harmed. You issue a command to the target, with the 

effects of the spell command. 


COMPETITIVE EDGE 


J| ciemuc | Emotion | ENCHANTMENT 


FOCUS 4 


| INCAPACITATION | 


FOCUS 4 


Domain ambition 

Cast 9 verbal 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

Your competitiveness drives you to prove yourself against 

the opposition. You gain a +1 status bonus to attack rolls and 

skill checks. If an enemy within 20 feet critically succeeds at 

an attack roll or skill check, your status bonus increases to 

+3 attack rolls or that specific skill check (whichever the foe 

critically succeeded at) for 1 round. 

Heightened (7th) Increase the base bonus to +2 and the 
increased bonus after an enemy critically succeeds to +4. 


CRY OF DESTRUCTION FOCUS 1 
Domain destruction 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 15-foot cone 

Saving Throw basic Fortitude 

Your voice booms, smashing what's in front of you. Each creature 
and unattended object in the area takes 1d8 sonic damage. If 
you already dealt damage to an enemy this turn with a Strike or 
spell, increase the damage dice from this spell to d12s. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d 8. 


DARKENED EYES 

| UNCOMMON | CLERIC | DARKNESS | TRANSMUTATION | 

Domain darkness 

Cast 959 somatic, verbal 

Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies 

You infuse a creature's vision with darkness. After attempting 

its save, the target becomes temporarily immune for 24 hours. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target's darkvision or low-light vision is suppressed 
for 1 round. 


FOCUS 4 


Failure As success, but the duration is 1 minute. 

Critical Failure As success, but the duration is 1 minute, and 
the target is also blinded for the duration. It can attempt 
a new save at the end of each of its turns. If it succeeds, 
it’s no longer blinded, but its darkvision or low-light vision 
remains suppressed. 


DAZZLING FLASH FOCUS 1 


UNCOMMON | cLERIC | Evocation | Licht | visuaL | 
Domain sun 
Cast 99 material, verbal 
Area 15-foot cone 
Saving Throw Fortitude 


You raise your religious symbol and create a blinding flash of 
light. Each creature in the area must attempt a Fortitude save. 
Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature is dazzled for 1 round. 

Failure The creature is blinded for 1 round and dazzled for 1 
minute. The creature can spend an Interact action rubbing 
its eyes to end the blinded condition. 

Critical Failure The creature is blinded for 1 round and dazzled 
for 1 hour. 

Heightened (3rd) The area increases to a 30-foot cone. 


FOCUS 1 


DESTRUCTIVE AURA 


FOCUS 4 


UNCOMMON | aura | | Evocation 
Domain destruction 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 15-foot emanation 
Duration 1 minute 

Swirling sands of divine devastation surround you, weakening 
the defenses of all they touch. Reduce the resistances of 
yourself and creatures in the area by 2. 

Heightened (+2) Reduce the resistances by an additional 2. 


DISPERSE INTO AIR FOCUS 4 


UNCOMMON Í AiR | cuemic | Potvwonen | raavsMurarion | 
Domain air 


Cast > somatic; Trigger You take damage from an enemy or 
a hazard. 

After taking the triggering damage, you transform into air. Until 
the end of the current turn, you cant be attacked or targeted, you 
don't take up space, you can't act, and any auras or emanations 
you have are suppressed. At the end of the turn, you re-form in 
any space you can occupy within 15 feet of where you were when 
you dispersed. Any auras or emanations you had are restored as 
long as their duration didn't run out while you were dispersed. 


DOWNPOUR - FOCUS 4 


Cast 2 verbal; Trigger A living creature within 20 feet of 
you dies, or an undead creature within 20 feet of you 
is destroyed. 

Duration 1 minute 

Seeing another pass from this world to the next invigorates you. 

You gain temporary Hit Points equal to the triggering creature's 

level plus your spellcasting ability modifier. If the triggering 

creature was undead, double the number of temporary Hit 

Points you gain . These last for the duration of the spell, and the 

spell ends if all the temporary Hit Points are depleted earlier. 


DELUSIONAL PRIDE FOCUS 4 


Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 


You make the target overconfident, leading it to ascribe failure 
to external factors. If the target fails at an attack roll or skill 
check, it takes a -1 status penalty to attack rolls and skill 
checks until the end of its turn (or the end of its next turn, if it 
attempted the roll outside its turn). If the creature fails a second 
time while taking this penalty, the penalty increases to -2. The 
duration depends on the target's Will save. After attempting its 
save, the creature becomes temporarily immune for 24 hours. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The duration is 1 round. 

Failure The duration is 10 minutes. 

Critical Failure The duration is 24 hours. 


UNCOMMON | CLERIC | Evocation | WATER 


Domain water 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 120 feet; Area 30-foot burst 
Duration 1 minute 


You call forth a torrential downpour, which extinguishes non- 
magical flames. Creatures in the area are concealed and gain 
fire resistance 10. Creatures outside the area are concealed to 
those inside the area. Creatures with weakness to water that 
end their turns in the area take damage equal to their weakness. 
Heightened (+1) The fire resistance increases by 2. 


DREAMER'S CALL 

Domain dreams 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration until the end of the target's next turn 

The target becomes distracted and suggestible, inundated by 

vivid daydreams. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target's attention wavers. It becomes flat-footed 
and fascinated by its daydreams. 

Failure As success, except that you appear in the dream and 
give a suggestion. This can be to approach you, run away 
(as if it had the fleeing condition), Release what it's holding, 
Drop Prone, or stand in place. The creature follows this 
course of action as its first action after you Cast the Spell. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the target follows the course 
of action for as many actions as possible for the spell's 
duration, and it does nothing else. 


FOCUS 4 


EQUIPMENT 
a 2,0.’ 
SPELLS 
OP 
HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


P» 


. GAME 
B TREASURE 
-APPEND 

oe 


CORE RULEBOOK 


ENDURING MIGHT FOCUS 4 


| UNCOMMON | 

Domain might 

Cast D somatic; Trigger An attack or effect would deal 
damage to you. 

Your own might mingles with divine power to protect you. You 

gain resistance equal to 8 plus your Strength modifier against 

all damage from the triggering attack or effect. 

Heightened (+1) The resistance increases by 2. 


ERADICATE UNDEATH 

[UNCOMMON | CLERIC | NECROMANCY | POSITIVE | 
Domain death 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot cone 

Saving Throw basic Fortitude 

A massive deluge of life energy causes the undead to 
fall apart. Each undead creature in the area takes 4d12 
positive damage. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12. 


FOCUS 4 


appearance becomes bland and nondescript. You gain a 

*2 status bonus to Deception and Stealth checks to go 

unnoticed among the crowd, and you ignore difficult terrain 

caused by the crowd. 

Heightened (3rd) The spell gains a range of 10 feet and can 
target up to 10 creatures. 


FIRE i 

[uncommon | arrack | cuenic | evocation [rine | 

Domain um 

Cast *95 somatic, verbal 

Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature 

A blazing band of fire arcs through the air. Make a spell attack 

roll. The ray deals 2d6 fire damage. 

Critical Success The ray deals double damage and 1d4 
persistent fire damage. 

Success The ray deals full damage. 

Heightened (+1) The ray's initial damage increases by 2d6, and 
the persistent fire damage on a critical success increases 
by 1d4. 


FOCUS 1 


ACEN IN THE CROWD FOCUS1 FLAME BARRIER FOCUS 4 
mom [UNCOMMON | ABjURATION | CLERIC | 
TEE cities Domain fire 


Cast 9 somatic 
Duration 1 minute 
While in a crowd of roughly similar creatures, your 


Cast Ð verbal; Trigger An effect would deal fire damage to 
either you or an ally within range. 
Range 60 feet; Targets the creature that would take fire damage 


You swiftly deflect incoming flames. The target gains fire 
resistance 15 against the triggering effect. 
Heightened (+2) The resistance increases by 5. 


FORCED QUIET 

| UNCOMMON || ABJURATION | cLERIC | 

Domain secrecy 

Cast 99 material, somatic 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies 
You quiet the target's voice, preventing it from giving away 
valuable secrets. This doesn't prevent the target from talking 
or providing verbal spell components, but no creature more 
than 10 feet away can hear its whispers without succeeding 
at a Perception check against your spell DC, which might 
interfere with auditory or linguistic effects as well as 
communication. The spell's duration depends on the target's 
Fortitude save. After attempting its save, the target becomes 
temporarily immune for 24 hours. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The duration is 1 round. 

Failure The duration is 1 minute. 

Critical Failure The duration is 10 minutes. 


GLIMPSE THE TRUTH 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 4 


HURTLING STONE 


UNCOMMON | ATTACK | cuERIC | EARTH | Evocation 


Domain earth 
Cast 9 somatic 
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature 


You evoke a magical stone and throw it, with your god's 
presence guiding your aim. Make a spell attack roll against 
the target. The stone deals bludgeoning damage equal to 1d6 
plus your Strength modifier. 

Critical Success The stone deals double damage. 

Success The stone deals full damage. 

Heightened (+1) The stone's damage increases by 1d6. 


KNOW THE ENEMY FOCUS 4 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
C9 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


UNCOMMON | CLERIC | DIVINATION | FORTUNE | 

Domain knowledge 

Cast D somatic; Trigger You roll initiative and can see a 
creature, you succeed at an attack roll against a creature, 


or a creature fails a saving throw against one of your spells. 


You quickly remind yourself of useful information. Use a 1 
Recall Knowledge action, rolling the appropriate skill check | PLAYING THE 
to identify the triggering creature's abilities. You can roll P BAME 

your check twice and use the better result. i 


LOCALIZED QUAKE FOCUS 4 


| UNCOMMON | CLERIC | REVEL 
Domain truth 

Cast 9 somatic 

Area 30-foot emanation 
Duration 1 round 


UNCOMMON | cLERIC | EARTH | 


Domain earth 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 15-foot emanation or 15-foot cone 
Saving Throw Reflex 


Divine insight lets you see things as they truly are. The GM 
attempts a secret counteract check against each illusion that is 
at least partially within the area. Instead of counteracting the 
illusion, you see through it (for instance, if the check succeeds 
against an illusory disguise spell, you see the creature's true 
form but illusory disguise doesn't end). 

The area moves with you for the duration of the spell, and 
the GM attempts a secret counteract check each time a new 
illusion is within the area. 

Heightened (7th) You can allow everyone to see through 
illusions you succeed against, not just yourself. 


HEALER'S BLESSING 


FOCUS 1 


You shake the earth, toppling nearby creatures. Choose 

whether the spell’s area is a 15-foot emanation or a 15-foot 

cone when you cast it. Each creature in the area standing on 

solid ground may take 4d6 bludgeoning damage and must 

attempt a Reflex saving throw. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage and falls prone. 

Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and 
falls prone. 

Heightened (+1) Increase the damage by 2d6. 


LUCKY BREAK 


FOCUS 4 


| UNCOMMON | cLERIC | necromancy | 

Domain healing 

Cast 9 verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing living creature 

Duration 1 minute 

Your words bless a creature with an enhanced connection to 
positive energy. When the target regains Hit Points from a 
healing spell, it regains 2 additional Hit Points. 

The target regains additional Hit Points from healer's 
blessing only the first time it regains HP from a given healing 
spell, so a spell that heals the creature repeatedly over a 
duration would restore additional Hit Points only once. 
Heightened (+1) The additional healing increases by 2 HP. 


UNCOMMON | cLERIC | Divination | FORTUNE 
Domain luck 
Cast 2 verbal; Trigger You fail (but don't critically fail) a 
saving throw. 
Reroll the saving throw and use the better result. You then 
become temporarily immune for 10 minutes. 


MAGIC'S VESSEL 

UNCOMMON | CLERIC || ENCHANTMENT 
Domain magic 
Cast *9 somatic 
Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


FOCUS 1 


— me uec & 
SATHF CorE BUTEHGOK : 
i at —— Án ey n aai 


A creature becomes a receptacle for pure magical energy sent 
by your deity. The target gains a *1 status bonus to saving 
throws. Each time you Cast a Spell from your spell slots, you 
automatically Sustain this Spell and grant its target resistance 
to damage from spells until the start of your next turn. This 
resistance is equal to the level of the spell you cast. 


FOCUS 4 


MALIGNANT SUSTENANCE 


Domain undeath 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 willing undead creature 

Duration 1 minute 

You embed a seed of negative energy in an undead creature, 
restoring its unnatural vigor. The target gains fast healing 7. 
This healing comes from negative energy, so it heals the 
undead rather than damaging it. 

Heightened (+1) The fast healing increases by 2. 


MOONBEAM 


FOCUS 1 


UNCOMMON IMON | ATTACK | CLERIC 
Domain moon 


Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature 


| EOCATION | FIRE | 


You shine a ray of moonlight. Make a spell attack roll. The beam 

of light deals 1d6 fire damage. Moonbeam deals silver damage 

for the purposes of weaknesses, resistances, and the like. 

Critical Success The beam deals double damage, and the 
target is dazzled for 1 minute. 

Success The beam deals full damage, and the target is dazzled 
for 1 round. 

Heightened (+1) The ray's damage increases by 1d6. 


MYSTIC BEACON 
[wenn [nc [enorm] 

Domain magic 

Cast *9 somatic 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration until the start of your next turn 
The next damaging or healing spell the target casts before the 
start of your next turn deals damage or restores Hit Points 
as if the spell were heightened 1 level higher than its actual 
level. The spell otherwise functions at its actual level. Once the 
target casts the spell, mystic beacon ends. 


NATURE'S BOUNTY 

UNCOMMON | CLERIC | CONJURATION |. PLANT | POSITIVE | 
Domain nature 
Cast *9 somatic 
Requirements You have a free hand. 
A palm-sized raw fruit or vegetable appears in your open hand. 
You choose the specific type of food. A creature can consume 
the food with an Interact action to regain 3d10+12 Hit Points 
and be nourished as if it had eaten a meal. If uneaten, the food 
rots and crumbles to dust after 1 minute. 
Heightened (+1) The Hit Points restored increase by 6. 


FOCUS 4 


FOCUS 4 


OVERSTUFF 

[conn | csc] mnes] 

Domain indulgence 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

Huge amounts of food and drink fill the target. It receives a full 

meal's worth of nourishment and must attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is sickened 1, but if it spends an action to 
end the condition, it succeeds automatically. 

Failure The target is sickened 1. 

Critical Failure The target is sickened 2. 

A target sickened by this spell takes a -10-foot status penalty 

to its Speed until it's no longer sickened. 


PERFECTED FORM 

[unn [ aum J cen [rome] 

Domain perfection 

Cast D somatic; Trigger You fail a saving throw against a 
morph, petrification, or polymorph effect. 

Reroll the saving throw and use the better result. 


PERFECTED MIND _ 


mmmn 

Domain perfection 

Cast 9 verbal 

You meditate upon perfection to remove all distractions 
from your mind. Attempt a new Will save against one mental 
effect currently affecting you that required a Will save. Use 
the result of this new save to determine the outcome of the 
mental effect, unless the new save would have a worse result 
than the original save, in which case nothing happens. You can 
use perfected mind against a given effect only once. 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 4 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 4 


POSITIVE LUMINANCE 


Domain sun 

Cast *9 somatic 

Duration 1 minute 

Drawing life force into yourself, you become a beacon of 
positive energy. You glow with bright light in a 10-foot 
emanation, and you gain an internal pool of light called a 
luminance reservoir, which begins with a value of 4. At the 
start of each of your turns, you can use a free action to 
increase the luminance reservoir by 4. If you do, the radius of 
your light increases by 10 feet. 

If an undead creature damages you with an attack or spell 
while it's within the area of your light, that creature takes 
positive damage equal to half your luminance reservoir value. 
It takes this damage only the first time it damages you in 
a round. 

You can Dismiss this Spell. When you do, you can target 
a creature within your light and direct the positive energy 
into it. The target must be a willing living creature or an 
undead creature. This heals a living target or damages 


an undead target by an amount equal to your luminance 
reservoir's value. 
When you cast positive luminance, any other positive 
luminance spell you already had in effect ends. 
Heightened (+1) Both the initial value of your luminance 
reservoir and the amount you gain each turn increase by 1. 


PRECIOUS METALS FOCUS 4 

| UNCOMMON | CLERIC | TRANSMUTATION 

Domain wealth 

Cast *9 material 

Range touch; Targets 1 metal weapon, up to 10 pieces of metal 
or metal-tipped ammunition, 1 suit of metal armor, or up to 

1 bulk of metal material (such as coins) 

Duration 1 minute 

Your deity blesses base metals to transform them into 
precious materials. The target item transforms from its normal 
metal into cold iron, copper, gold, iron, silver, or steel (the 
details for these metals are found on pages 577-579). An item 
transmuted in this way deals damage according to its new 
material. For example, a steel sword transmuted to cold iron 
would deal additional damage to a creature with a weakness 
to cold iron. 

This change is clearly magical and temporary, so the item's 
monetary value doesn't change; you couldn't transmute copper 
coins to gold and use those coins to purchase something or as 
a cost for a spell. 

Heightened (8th) Add adamantine (page 578) and mithral 

(page 579) to the list of metals you can transform the 

item into. 


PROTECTOR'S SACRIFICE 


CLERIC 


FOCUS 1 


| UNCOMMON | | ABJURATION 
Domain protection 

Cast Ð somatic; Trigger An ally within 30 feet takes damage. 
Range 30 feet 


You protect your ally by suffering in their stead. Reduce the 
damage the triggering ally would take by 3. You redirect 
this damage to yourself, but your immunities, weaknesses, 
resistances and so on do not apply. 

You arent subject to any conditions or other effects of 
whatever damaged your ally (such as poison from a venomous 
bite). Your ally is still subject to those effects even if you 
redirect all of the triggering damage to yourself. 

Heightened (+1) The damage you redirect increases by 3. 


PROTECTOR'S SPHERE FOCUS 4 


mmen 
Domain protection 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 15-foot emanation 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


PULSE OF THE CITY 

UNCOMMON | CLERIC | DIVINATION } scRVING 
Domain cities 
Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 25 miles 
You tap into the zeitgeist of the nearest settlement in range (if 
any). You learn the name of the settlement, and you can utter a 
special word to learn a brief summary of one significant event 
happening in the settlement. Choose one of the following 
words, which indicates the type of people involved and type 
of event you learn about. 

* Wardens city guards, barristers, and judges (criminal 

reports, busts, changes in routines, legal trials) 

e Titles nobles and politicians (high society weddings, 

elite soirees, political rallies) 

e Masses common folk and merchants (gathering mobs, 

major sales) 
When uttering your word, you can exclude events you already 
know about, whether you know about them from this spell 
or from other experiences. If you cast pulse of the city again 
within 24 hours, you can say "echo" instead of another word 
to get an update on the event you learned about the last time 
you Cast the Spell. 

Pulse of the city reveals only publicly available or 
observable information. You never learn clandestine 
movements or other details people are specifically trying to 
hide. The spell is also notoriously bad at overcoming magic 
meant to avoid detection; it automatically fails to reveal 
information about events involving creatures, places, or 
objects affected by spells that could prevent or counteract 
pulse of the city (such as nondetection). 

Heightened (5th) The range increases to 100 miles. 


PUSHING GUST 


FOCUS 4 


FOCUS 1 


UNCOMMON || AIR | cuenic | conjuramion | 
Domain air 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 500 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Fortitude 


Giving the air a push, you buffet the target with a powerful 

gust of wind; it must attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is pushed 5 feet away from you. 

Failure The target is pushed 10 feet away from you. 

Critical Failure The target is pushed 10 feet away from you 
and knocked prone. 


READ FATE 
J ceric | oivination | prepictioN | 

Domain fate 

Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal) 

Range 10 feet; Targets 1 creature other than you 


FOCUS 1 


A protective aura emanates out from you, safeguarding you 
and your allies. You gain resistance 3 to all damage. Your allies 
also gain this resistance while they are within the area. 
Heightened (+1) The resistance increases by 1. 


You attempt to learn more about the target's fate in the short 
term, usually within the next day for most prosaic creatures, 
or the next hour or less for someone likely to have multiple 
rapid experiences, such as someone actively adventuring. 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 
e 

HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 


ieee ne umo 


t) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
= er wer" 


You learn a single enigmatic word connected to the creature's 
fate in that time frame. Fate is notoriously inscrutable, and the 
word isn't necessarily meant to be taken at face value, so the 
meaning is often clear only in hindsight. The GM rolls a secret 
DC 6 flat check. If the creatures fate is too uncertain, or on a 
failed flat check, the spell yields the word “inconclusive.” Either 
way, the creature is then temporarily immune for 24 hours. 


REBUKE DEATH FOCUS 4 

| UNCOMMON | cLERIC | HEALING | necromancy | PosiTivE | 

Domain healing 

Cast *9 to 99? (somatic) 

Area 20-foot emanation; Targets 1 living creature per action 
spent to cast this spell 

You snatch creatures from the jaws of death. You can 

spend 1 to 3 actions Casting this Spell, and you can target a 

number of creatures equal to the actions spent. Each target 

regains 3d6 Hit Points. If the target had the dying condition, 

coming back from dying due to this healing doesn't increase 

its wounded condition. 


You inflict pain upon the target and revel in their anguish. This 

deals 1d4 mental damage and 1d4 persistent mental damage; 

the target must attempt a Will save. As long as the target is 

taking persistent damage from this spell, you gain a *1 status 

bonus to attack rolls and skill checks against the target. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes half damage and no persistent 
damage. 

Failure The target takes full initial and persistent damage. 

Critical Failure The target takes double initial and 
persistent damage. 

Heightened (*1) The initial damage increases by 1d4 and the 
persistent damage increases by 1d4. 


SCHOLARLY RECOLLECTION 

[men | cuen Tow [rome] 

Domain knowledge 

Cast verbal; Trigger You attempt a Perception check to 
Seek, or you attempt a skill check to Recall Knowledge with 
a skill you're trained in. 


FOCUS 1 


Heightened (+1) Increase the healing by 1d6. 


RETRIBUTIVE PAIN FOCUS 4 
Ca oe ETT 
Domain pain 


Cast D somatic; Trigger A creature in range damages you. 
Range 30 feet; Targets the triggering creature 

Saving Throw basic Fortitude 

You vengefully reflect your pain upon your tormentor. The 
target takes mental damage equal to half the amount it dealt 
to you when it triggered the spell. 


SAFEGUARD SECRET 
Domain secrecy 
Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal) 
Range 10 feet; Targets you and any number of willing allies 
Duration 1 hour 
You ensure a secret remains safe from prying spies. Choose one 
piece of information that at least some of the targets know; 
you can target a creature only if it remains within range for the 
full minute during which you Cast the Spell. The spell grants 
those who know the piece of knowledge you have chosen a 
*4 status bonus to skill checks (typically Deception checks) 
to conceal this knowledge and to saving throws against spells 
that specifically attempt to obtain this knowledge from them 
and effects that would force them to reveal it. 

If you Cast this Spell again, any previous safeguard secret 
you had cast ends. 


SAVOR THE STING 

[ UNCOMMON | cien | ENCHANTMENT 
Domain pain 

Cast *9 somatic 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Will 


FOCUS 4 


FOCUS 1 


Tem Turne] 


Speaking a short prayer as you gather your thoughts, you're 
blessed to find that your deity gave you just the right bit of 
information for your situation. Roll the triggering check twice 
and use the better result. 


SHARED NIGHTMARE FOCUS 4 


| UNCOMMON | CLERIC | EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | INCAPACITATION |. MENTAL | 
Domain nightmares 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 


Merging minds with the target, you swap disorienting visions 

from one anothers nightmares. One of you will become 

confused, but which it'll be depends on the target's Will save. 

Critical Success You are confused for 1 round. 

Success At the start of your next turn, you spend your first 
action with the confused condition, then act normally. 

Failure As success, but the target is affected instead of you, 
spending its first action each turn confused. The duration 
is 1 minute. 

Critical Failure The target is confused for 1 minute. 


SOOTHING WORDS 
[uon | cuer | eono excu | wena | 
Domain family 
Cast 9 verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 ally 
Duration 1 round 
You attempt to calm the target by uttering soothing words 
in a calm and even tone. The target gains a *1 status bonus 
to Will saving throws. This bonus increases to *2 against 
emotion effects. 
In addition, when you Cast this Spell, you can attempt to 
counteract one emotion effect on the target. 
Heightened (5th) The bonus to saves increases to +2, or +3 
against emotion effects. 


FOCUS 1 


SPLASH OF ART FOCUS 1 


| UNCOMMON | CLERIC | ILLUSION |. visuAL | 

Domain creation 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Area 5-foot burst 

Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 

A deluge of colorful illusory paint, tools, or other symbols 
of art and artisanship drift down in the area. Roll 1d4 to 
determine the color of the illusion. Each creature in the 
area must attempt a Will save. A creature is unaffected on a 
success. On a failure or critical failure, the creature takes the 
results listed on the table relevant to the color. 


1d4 Color Failure Critical Failure 

1 White Dazzled 1 round Dazzled 1 minute 

2 Red Enfeebled 1 for 1 round Enfeebled 2 for 1 round 
3  Vellow Frightened 1 Frightened 2 

4 Blue Clumsy 1for{1round Clumsy 2 for 1 round 


SUDDEN SHIFT FOCUS 1 


UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | CLERIC | ILLUSION 
Domain trickery 
Cast 2 somatic; Trigger An enemy misses you with a 
melee attack. 
Duration until the end of your next turn 
You swiftly move from a dangerous spot and veil yourself. 
You Step and become concealed. 


SWEET DREAM 


FOCUS 1 


| UNCOMMON | AUDITORY | CLERIC | ENCHANTMENT | LINGUISTIC | MENTAL | SLEEP 


Domain dreams 
Cast 99? material, somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature 
Duration 10 minutes 
With soothing song or tales, you lull the target into an 
enchanting dream. When you cast the spell, the target 
falls unconscious if it wasn't already. While unconscious, it 
experiences a dream of your choice. If it sleeps for at least 1 
minute, it gains the benefit of the dream for the remainder of 
the spell's duration. 
* Dream of Insight +1 status bonus to Intelligence-based 
skill checks 
* Dream of Glamour +1 status bonus to Charisma-based 
skill checks 
* Dream of Voyaging +5-foot status bonus to Speed 
If you Cast this Spell again, the effects of any previous sweet 
dream you cast end. 


TAKE ITS COURSE 


| UNCOMMON | cLERIC | N 
Domain indulgence 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range touch; Targets 1 creature 

When someone has overindulged, you can hasten them 
past the worst of their affliction or intensify their misery. 
This spell attempts to progress a disease affliction, a poison 


FOCUS 4 


affliction, or persistent poison damage affecting the target. 
If the target is affected by more than one of these, you can 
choose from among those you are aware of; otherwise the 
GM chooses randomly. An unwilling target can attempt a 
Will save to negate take its course. 

The effect of this spell depends on whether you're attempting 
to end an affliction or persistent poison damage, and whether 
you are attempting to help or hinder the target's recovery. 

* Affliction The target immediately attempts its next 
saving throw against the affliction. You can grant 
the creature your choice of a *2 status bonus or 
a -2 status penalty to its saving throw against 
the affliction. 

* Persistent Poison You can cause the target take the 
persistent poison damage immediately when you Cast 
this Spell (in addition to taking it at the end of its next 
turn). Whether or not you do so, the target attempts 
an additional flat check against the persistent poison 
damage. You can set the DC of that flat check to 5 or 
20 instead of the normal DC. 

Heightened (7th) You can attempt to progress any number of 
the target's eligible afflictions and persistent poison damage. 


FOCUS 4 


Domain fate 

Cast 2 somatic; Trigger You or an ally within range attempts 
a saving throw. 

Range 120 feet; Targets the triggering creature 


You twist the forces of fate to make a moment dire or 
uneventful, with no in-between. The target gains a *1 status 
bonus to the triggering saving throw. If the saving throw's 
result is a success, it becomes a critical success. If it's a 
failure, it becomes a critical failure, and the critical failure 
can't be reduced by abilities that usually reduce critical 
failure, such as improved evasion. 

If the triggering ability did not have both a critical success 
and critical failure condition, tempt fate fails, but you don't 
expend the Focus Point for Casting this Spell. 

Heightened (8th) The bonus on the saving throw is *2. 


TIDAL SURGE FOCUS 1 


UNCOMMON | cLERIC | Evocation | waren | 


Domain water 

Cast *9 somatic 

Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature 
Saving Throw Fortitude 


You call forth a tremendous wave to move the target either 
in a body of water or on the ground. The target must attempt 
a Fortitude save. 

Failure You move the target 5 feet in any direction along 
the ground or 10 feet in any direction through a body 
of water. 

Critical Failure You move the target up to 10 feet in any 
direction along the ground or 20 feet in any direction 
through a body of water. 


EQUIPMENT 
oo 2,0. 
SPELLS 
Eo 
HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


" 


CORE RULEBOOK 4 


TOUCH OF OBEDIENCE 


UNCOMMON | CLERIC Ee | MENTAL | 

Domain tyranny 

Cast *9 somatic 

Range touch; Targets 1 living creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 

Your imperious touch erodes the target's willpower, making it 
easier to control. The target attempts a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is stupefied 1 until the end of your current turn. 
Failure The target is stupefied 1 until the end of your next turn. 
Critical Failure The target is stupefied 1 for 1 minute. 


TOUCH OF THE MOON FOCUS 4 
mmm 
Domain moon 
Cast *9 somatic 
Range touch; Target 1 creature 
Duration 1 minute 
When you touch the target, a symbol of the moon appears on 
its forehead, glowing with soft moonlight. The target glows 
with dim light in a 20-foot radius. It also gets a benefit based 
on a phase of the moon, starting with the new moon and 
changing to the next phase at the end of each of its turns. 
* New Moon The target receives no benefit. 
* Waxing Moon The target gains a *1 status bonus to 
attack rolls and a *4 status bonus to damage rolls. 
* Full Moon The target gains a +1 status bonus to attack 
rolls, AC, and saves, and a *4 status bonus to damage. 
* Waning Moon The target gains a *1 status bonus to 
AC and saving throws. After this phase, return to the 
new moon. 


TOUCH OF UNDEATH 

J uncommon | cueric | necrowancy | necarive | 

Domain undeath 

Cast *9 somatic 

Range touch; Targets 1 living creature 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

You attack the target's life force with undeath, dealing 1d6 

negative damage. The target must attempt a Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes half damage. 

Failure The target takes full damage, and positive effects heal 
it only half as much as normal for 1 round. 

Critical Failure The target takes double damage, and positive 
effects heal it only half as much as normal for 1 minute. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6. 


TRAVELER'S TRANSIT 


UNCOMMON | cLERIC | Evocation | 
Domain travel 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 

You add power to your muscles, allowing you to swim or climb 
walls with ease. When you cast this spell, you gain either a climb 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 4 


Speed or a swim Speed. The Speed is equal to your land Speed. 
Heightened (5th) You can choose to gain a fly Speed. 


TRICKSTER'S TWIN 
MON | CLERIC 
Domain trickery — 

Cast 99 material, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 

You rarely settle for being in just one place. Choose a location 

within 100 feet of the target that the target can see. You 

create an illusion of yourself there that only it can see and that 
mimics all your actions. The target must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target believes you're in the designated location 
and cant see you in your actual location. The target 
automatically disbelieves the illusion when you use an 
action that doesn't make sense in the illusion's position, or 
if the target attacks, touches, Seeks, or otherwise engages 
with the illusion. If you use a hostile action against the 
target, the spell ends. 

Failure As success, but the target must succeed at a Will save to 
disbelieve the illusion when one of the listed events occurs. 

Critical Failure As success, but the target must critically 
succeed at a Will save to disbelieve when one of the listed 
events occurs. 


UNIMPEDED STRIDE 


| UNCOMMON | CLERIC | TRANSMUTATION | 

Domain freedom 

Cast 9 somatic 

Nothing can hold you in place. You immediately escape from 
every magical effect that has you immobilized or grabbed unless 
the effect is of a higher level than your unimpeded stride spell. 
You then Stride. During this movement, you ignore difficult 
terrain and any circumstance or status penalties to your Speed. 


UNITY FOCUS 4 


| UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | CLERIC | FORTUNE | 

Domain family 

Cast 2 verbal; Trigger You and 1 or more allies within range 
are targeted by a spell or ability that allows a saving throw. 

Range 30 feet; Targets each ally targeted by the triggering spell 

You put up a united defense. Each ally can use your saving 

throw modifier instead of its own against the triggering spell. 

Each ally decides individually which modifier to use. 


VEIL OF CONFIDENCE 

Domain confidence 

Cast 9 verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

You surround yourself in a veil of confidence. You reduce your 

current frightened condition by 1, and whenever you would 

become frightened during the duration, reduce the amount by 1. 
If you critically fail a save against fear, veil of confidence 


FOCUS 4 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 1 


ends immediately, and you increase any frightened condition 
you gain from the critical failure by 1 instead of decreasing it. 


VIBRANT THORNS FOCUS 1 


| ceric | morph | PLANT 
Domain nature 

Cast *9 somatic 

Duration 1 minute 

Your body sprouts a coat of brambly thorns that harm those 
that strike you and thrive on life magic. Adjacent creatures 
that hit you with a melee attack, as well as creatures that hit 
you with unarmed attacks, take 1 piercing damage each time 
they do. Anytime you cast a positive spell, the damage from 
your thorns increases to 1d6 until the start of your next turn. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1, or 1d6 after you 

cast a positive spell. 


WAKING NIGHTMARE FOCUS 1 
Domain nightmares 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration varies 

You fill the creatures mind with a terrifying vision out of its 
nightmares. The target must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is frightened 1. 

Failure The target is frightened 2. 

Critical Failure The target is frightened 3. 

If the target is unconscious when you Cast this Spell on it, it 
immediately wakes up before attempting its save, and if it fails 
its save, it gains the fleeing condition for 1 round in addition to 
the effects noted above. 


WEAPON SURGE 


| UNCOMMON | cueRic | EVOCATION | 

Domain zeal 

Cast *9 somatic 

Range touch; Targets 1 weapon you're wielding 

Holding your weapon aloft, you fill it with divine energy. On 

your next Strike with that weapon before the start of your 

next turn, you gain a *1 status bonus to the attack roll and the 

weapon deals an additional die of damage. If the weapon has 

a striking rune, this instead increases the number of dice from 

the striking rune by 1 (to a maximum of 3 extra weapon dice). 
If the target weapon leaves your possession, weapon 

surge immediately ends. 


WORD OF FREEDOM 


| UNCOMMON | CLERIC | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL 
Domain freedom 
Cast 9 verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Duration 1 round 

You utter a liberating word of power that frees a creature. 
You suppress one of the following conditions of your choice: 


| TRANSMUTATION | 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 4 


confused, frightened, grabbed, paralyzed, or restrained. The 
target isn't affected by the chosen condition, and if you suppress 
the grabbed or restrained condition, the target automatically 
breaks free from the grab or restraint when you Cast the Spell. 

If you don't remove the effect that provided the condition, 
the condition returns after the spell ends. For example, if a 
spell was making the target confused for 1 minute, word of 
freedom would let the target act normally for a round, but the 
confused condition would return afterward. 


WORD OF TRUTH 


UNCOMMON | CLERIC | DIVINATION 


Domain truth 

Cast 9 verbal 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You speak a statement you believe to be true and that is free of 

any attempt to deceive through twisting words, omission, and 

so on. The statement must be 25 words or fewer. A symbol of 

your deity glows above your head, and anyone who sees you 

and hears your statement knows that you believe it to be true. 
Each time you Sustain this Spell, you can repeat this effect. 


ZEAL FOR BATTLE FOCUS 4 
UNCOMMON | CLERIC | EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | FORTUNE | MENTAL 

Domain zeal 
Cast Ð verbal; Trigger You and at least 1 ally are about to 

roll initiative. 

Range 10 feet; Targets you and the triggering ally 

You stoke the righteous anger within yourself and an ally. You 
and the target ally each roll a d20 and use the higher result for 
both your initiative rolls. You each still use your own Perception 


modifier or other statistic to determine your results. 


FOCUS 1 


DRUID 


Druids can gain the following order spells. 


GOODBERRY 


UNCOMMON | DRUID | HEALING | NECROMANCY 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Range touch; Targets 1 ripe berry 
Duration 10 minutes 
You imbue the target berry with the bounty of nature. A creature 
can eat the berry with an Interact action to regain 1d6+4 HP. A 
berry not consumed during the duration withers away. Every 
six goodberries consumed gives as much nourishment as one 
square meal for a typical human. 
Heightened (+1) You can target an additional berry. A creature 
can consume any number of goodberries from the same 
casting with a single Interact action. 


FOCUS 1 


HEAL ANIMAL FOCUS 1 
UNCOMMON | DRUID | HEALING | necromancy | Positive | 
Cast 9 to 99 somatic 


Range touch or 30 feet (see text); Targets 1 willing living 
animal creature 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
NO 


THE AGE OF 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


ps 


ARR TTT | 


S sme (QUIRITES ae ct — : 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 3 
a a lit re ed ] 


You heal an animal's wounds, restoring 1d8 Hit Points to 
the target. The number of actions spent Casting this Spell 
determines its effect. 
* 99 somatic The spell has a range of touch. 
e 9? somatic, verbal The spell has a range of 30 feet 
and restores an additional 8 Hit Points to the target. 


STORM LORD 

mmm 

Cast 99 somatic, verbal; Requirements You are outdoors 
and aboveground. 

Area 100-foot emanation, which affects you 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


FOCUS 9 


Heightened (+1) The amount of healing increases by 1d8, and 
the additional healing for the 2-action version increases by 8. 


IMPALING BRIARS FOCUS 8 


J| UNCOMMON | CONJURATION | DRUID | PLANT | 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Area ground within a 100-foot emanation 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

The ground within the area transforms into a mass of 
dangerous briars that assault and impede your foes. The first 
time each round you Sustain the Spell, you can select one of 
the following effects to occur in the area. 

* Ensnare The briars clump around your foes, attempting 
to hold them in place. A foe within the area (or flying 
at most 20 feet above the area) must attempt a Reflex 
save. On a failure, it takes a -10-foot circumstance 
penalty to all Speeds for 1 round, and on a critical failure, 
it is immobilized for 1 round unless it Escapes. 

* Impede The briars twist and writhe, making the entire 
area difficult terrain. 

* Wall A wall of thorns appears in the area, lasting for 
1 round. The wall is greater difficult terrain instead of 
difficult terrain. 

In addition, once per round you can direct the briars to impale 
any target in the area (or flying up to 20 feet above the area) 
that you can see by using a single action, which has the 
concentrate and manipulate traits. Make a spell attack roll. On 
a success, the target takes 10d6 piercing damage and takes a 
-10-foot circumstance penalty to all Speeds for 1 round; on a 
critical success, the target is immobilized for 1 round unless 
it Escapes. 


PRIMAL SUMMONS 


Cast & verbal 

You enhance a summoned creature with the power of the 
elements. If your next action is to cast either summon animal 
or summon plant or fungus, choose air, earth, fire, or water, and 
the creature you summon gains the corresponding abilities. 

* Air The creature gains a fly Speed of 60 feet. 

* Earth The creature gains a burrow Speed of 20 feet, 
reduces its land Speed by 10 feet (minimum 5 feet), and 
gains resistance 5 to physical damage. 

* Fire The creatures attacks deal 1d6 extra fire damage, 
and it gains resistance 10 to fire and weakness 5 to 
cold and water. 

* Water The creature gains a swim Speed of 60 feet, 
can spend 1 action after a melee attack to attempt a 
Shove (ignoring multiple attack penalty), and gains 
resistance 5 to fire. 


FOCUS 6 


The sky above you darkens in a matter of moments, swirling 
with ominous clouds punctuated by flashes of lighting. The 
first time each round you Sustain the Spell, you can select one 
of the following effects to occur in the area. 

* Calm No additional effect. 

* Fog Heavy fog rolls in, concealing the area with the 
effects of obscuring mist. 

* Rain Torrential rain falls from the sky, dousing ordinary 
flames. Creatures in the area take a -2 circumstance 
penalty to Acrobatics and Perception checks. 

* Wind Powerful winds buffet the area in all directions. 
Ranged attacks take a -4 circumstance penalty, and 
all flying is against the wind and counts as moving 
through difficult terrain. 

In addition, once per round you can use a single action, which 
has the concentrate and manipulate traits, to call down a bolt 
of lightning, striking any target in range that you can see. You 
deal 10d6 electricity damage to the target; it must attempt a 
basic Reflex save. On a failure, it is also deafened for 1 round. 


STORMWIND FLIGHT FOCUS 4 


Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

Powerful winds carry you smoothly through the air, giving you 

a fly Speed equal to your Speed. When this spell's duration 

would end, if you're still flying, you float to the ground, as 

feather fall. 

Heightened (6th) When you fly using stormwind flight, you 
don't count flying against the wind as difficult terrain. 


TEMPEST SURGE FOCUS 1 


| UNCOMMON | AIR | DRUID | ELECTRICITY | EVOCATION | 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 


Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Reflex 

You surround a foe in a swirling storm of violent winds, 

roiling clouds, and crackling lightning. The storm deals 1d12 

electricity damage. The target must attempt a basic Reflex 

save. On a failure, the target also is clumsy 2 for 1 round and 

takes 1 persistent electricity damage. 

Heightened (+1) The initial damage increases by 1d12, and the 
persistent electricity damage on a failure increases by 1. 


WILD MORPH FOCUS 1 
oc er ware 

Cast *9 to *}> somatic, verbal 

Duration 1 minute 


You morph your body based on your training, choosing one of 
the following effects based on your wild order feats. 


* |f you have Wild Shape, you can morph your hands 
into wild claws. Your hands transform into incredibly 
sharp claws. These claws are an unarmed attack you're 
trained in and deal 1d6 slashing damage each (agile, 
finesse). You can still hold and use items with your 
hands while they're transformed by this spell, but you 
cannot hold an item while attacking. If you have Insect 
Shape, you can instead transform your mouth into wild 
jaws, an unarmed attack you're trained in that deals 
1d8 piercing damage. 

* |f you have Elemental Shape, you can morph your body 
to be partially composed of elemental matter, granting 
you resistance 5 to critical hits and precision damage. 

* |f you have Plant Shape, you can morph your arms into 
long vines, increasing your reach to 10 feet (or 15 feet 
with a reach weapon). 

* |f you have Soaring Shape, you can cast the spell as 
a two-action activity (> somatic, verbal) to grow 
wings from your back. These wings allow you to fly 
with a fly Speed of 30 feet. 

Heightened (6th) You can choose up to two of the effects from 
the list. Wild claws leave terrible, ragged wounds that also 
deal 2d6 persistent bleed damage on a hit, and wild jaws 
are envenomed, also dealing 2d6 persistent poison damage 
on a hit. 

Heightened (10th) You can choose up to three of the effects from 
the list. Wild claws deal 4d6 persistent bleed damage on a hit, 
and wild jaws deal 4d6 persistent poison damage on a hit. 


WILD SHAPE FOCUS 1 


You move so fast you blur across planar boundaries. You teleport 
up to a distance equal to your Speed within your line of sight. 


EMPTY BODY FOCUS 9 


UNCOMMON | CONJURATION | MONK 
somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 

You turn ethereal, with the effects of ethereal jaunt, but you 
don't need to concentrate. 


KI BLAST 


UNCOMMON | Evocation | FORCE | 

Cast *9 to 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 15-foot cone or more 

Saving Throw Fortitude 

You unleash your ki as a powerful blast of force that deals 2d6 

force damage. If you use 2 actions to cast ki blast, increase the 

size of the cone to 30 feet and the damage to 3d6. If you use 

3 actions to cast ki blast, increase the size of the cone to 60 

feet and the damage to 4d6. Each creature in the area must 

attempt a Fortitude saving throw. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage and is pushed 5 feet. 

Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is 
pushed 10 feet. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6, or by 2d6 if you 
use 2 or 3 actions. 


KI RUSH 


| TELEPORTATION 


FOCUS 3 


FORCE || MONK 


FOCUS 1 


| UNCOMMON | DRUID | POLYMORPH | TRANSMUTATION | 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute (or longer) 
You infuse yourself with primal essence and transform into 
another form. You can polymorph into any form listed in pest 
form, which lasts 10 minutes. All other wild shape forms last 1 
minute. You can add more forms to your wild shape list with druid 
feats; your feat might grant you some or all of the forms from a 
given polymorph spell. When you transform into a form granted 
by a spell, you gain all the effects of the form you chose from a 
version of the spell heightened to wild shape's level. Wild shape 
allows you to use your own shapeshifting training more easily 
than most polymorph spells. When you choose to use your own 
attack modifier while polymorphed instead of the form's default 
attack modifier, you gain a *2 status bonus to your attack rolls. 
Heightened (2nd) You can also wild shape into the forms listed 
in animal form. 


MONK 


Monks can gain the following ki spells. 


ABUNDANT STEP 


| UNCOMMON | CONJURATION | MONK | TELEPORTATION 
Cast *9 somatic 


Range 15 feet or more 


FOCUS 4 


Accelerated by your ki, you move with such speed you become 
a blur. Move two times: two Strides, two Steps, or one Stride 
and one Step (in either order). You gain the concealed condition 
during this movement and until the start of your next turn. 


KI STRIKE FOCUS 1 


| UNCOMMON [| MONK | TRANSMUTATION 
Casting *9 verbal 

You focus your ki into magical attacks. Make an unarmed 
Strike or Flurry of Blows (this doesn't change the limit on 
using only one flourish per turn). You gain a *1 status bonus 
to your attack rolls with the Strikes, and the Strikes deal 1d6 
extra damage. This damage can be any of the following types 
of your choice, chosen each time you Strike: force, lawful (only 
if you're lawful), negative, or positive. 

Heightened (+4) The extra damage increases by 1d6. 


QUIVERING PALM 


| UNCOMMON | INCAPACITATION 


FOCUS 8 


| | monk | necromancy 
somatic, verbal 
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 month 
Make a melee unarmed Strike. If you hit and the target is alive, 
anytime during the duration, you can spend a single action, 
which has the auditory and concentrate traits, to speak a word 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
9 

HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 

. GAME 
STERING 


E 


& TREASURE 


TUNE 


m 


: APPEND 


E | 


^ N^ 
e 


Tode menm c 


E 


E RULEBOOK 43 


of death that could instantly slay it. The target must attempt a 

Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target survives, the spell ends, and the 
target is then temporarily immune for 24 hours. 

Success The target is stunned 1 and takes 40 damage, the spell 
ends, and the target is then temporarily immune for 24 hours. 

Failure The target is stunned 3 and takes 80 damage. The 
spell's duration continues, but the target is then temporarily 
immune for 24 hours against being killed by quivering palm. 

Critical Failure The target dies. 

If you cast quivering palm again, the effects of any quivering 

palm you had previously cast end. 


Area 5-foot emanation or more; Targets each foe in the area 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round 

You utter phrases in an unknown tongue, assaulting the 
minds of those nearby. Each target must attempt a Will 
save. Regardless of the result of its save, each target is then 
temporarily immune for 1 minute. You can increase the number 
of actions it takes to Cast the Spell (to a maximum of 3 actions 
total). For each additional action, increase the emanation's 
radius by 5 feet, to a maximum of 10 extra feet for 3 actions. 
Success The target is unaffected. 

Failure The target is stupefied 2. 

Critical Failure The target is confused. 


Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 10 on a failure, or 5 
On à SUCCESS. 


WHOLENESS OF BODY 
C 
Cast *9 verbal 
You heal yourself in one of the following ways, chosen by you 
when you cast the spell. 
* You regain 8 Hit Points. 
* You attempt to cure one poison or disease afflicting 
you; attempt to counteract the affliction. 


Heightened (+1) If you choose to regain Hit Points, the Hit 
Points regained increase by 8. 


WILD WINDS STANCE 
C 
Cast * somatic 
Duration until you leave the stance 
You take on the stance of the flowing winds, sending out waves 
of energy at a distance. You can make wind crash unarmed 
Strikes as ranged Strikes against targets within 30 feet. These 
deal 1d6 bludgeoning damage, use the brawling group, and 
have the agile, nonlethal, propulsive, and unarmed traits. Wind 
crash Strikes ignore concealment and all cover. 

While in wild winds stance, you gain a *2 circumstance 
bonus to AC against ranged attacks. 


WIND JUMP 

Cast *9 verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

You gain a fly Speed equal to your Speed. You must end your 

turn on solid ground, or you fall. 

Heightened (6th) At the end of your turn, you can attempt a 
DC 30 Acrobatics check to find purchase in midair. If you 
succeed, you don't fall. 


FOCUS 2 


FOCUS 4 


FOCUS 5 


SORCERER 


Sorcerers can gain the following bloodline spells. 


ABERRANT WHISPERS FOCUS 3 


UNCOMMON Rd enchantment | Ee sorcerer f 
Cast 9 to 99? verbal 


Heightened (+3) The initial radius increases by 5 feet. 


ABYSSAL WRATH FOCUS 5 


conor nooo aea] 
Cast *99 somatic, verbal 

Area 60-foot cone 

Saving Throw basic Reflex 

You evoke the energy of an Abyssal realm. The damage types 


of the spell (one energy and one physical) are based on the 
result of rolling on the table below. 


1d4 Realm Manifestation Damage Type 

1 Skies Bolts of lightning Bludgeoning 
and flying debris and electricity 

2 Depths Acid and demonic Acid and slashing 
shells 

3 Frozen Frigid air and ice Bludgeoning and cold 


4  Volcanic Jagged volcanic rocks 
and magma 


Fire and piercing 


You deal 4d6 damage of each of the corresponding damage 
types to each creature in the cone (8d6 total damage). 
Heightened (+1) The damage for each type increases by 1d6. 


ANCESTRAL MEMORIES FOCUS 1 


CE 

Cast *9 verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

The memories of long-dead spellcasters grant you knowledge 

in a specific skill. Choose any non-Lore skill, or a Lore skill 

related to the ancient empire from which your bloodline 

sprang. You temporarily become trained in that skill and 

might gain other memories associated with an ancestor 

who was trained in that skill. If you attempt a task or 

activity that lasts beyond this spell's duration, use the lower 

proficiency modifier. 

Heightened (6th) You temporarily become an expert in the 
skill you choose. 


ANGELIC HALO 

nos On oo SORCERER 
Cast *9 verbal 

Area 15-foot emanation 

Duration 1 minute 


FOCUS 1 


You gain an angelic halo with an aura that increases allies’ 
healing from the heal spell. Allies in your halo's emanation who 
are healed by a heal spell gain a status bonus to Hit Points 
regained equal to double the heal spell's level. 


ANGELIC WINGS FOCUS 3 


[UNCOMMON | Evocation | LicHT | sorceRER | 
somatic, verbal 
Duration 3 rounds 
Wings of pure light spread out from your back, granting you a 
fly Speed equal to your Speed. Your wings cast bright light in 
a 30-foot radius. When this spell's duration would end, if you're 
still flying, you float to the ground, as feather fall. 

Heightened (5th) The duration increases to 1 minute. 


ARCANE COUNTERMEASURE FOCUS 5 

J UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | SORCERER 

Cast 2 somatic; Trigger A creature within range that you can 
see Casts a Spell. 

Range 120 feet; Targets the spell cast by the triggering creature 


Area 30-foot cone or 60-foot line originating from you 
Saving Throw basic Reflex or Fortitude 

You spew energy from your mouth, dealing 5d6 damage. The 
area, damage type, and save depend on the dragon type in 
your bloodline. 


Dragon Type Area and Damage Type Saving Throw 
Black or copper 60-foot line of acid Reflex 
Blue or bronze — 60-foot line of electricity Reflex 
Brass 60-foot line of fire Reflex 
Green 30-foot cone of poison Fortitude 
Gold or red 30-foot cone of fire Reflex 
Silver or white — 30-foot cone of cold Reflex EQUIPMENT 
——— 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. | SPELLS 
OOO 
DRAGON CLAWS FOCUS1 | 
UNCOMMON | MoRPH | SORCERER | TRANSMUTATION peel AGE TE 
Cast *9 verbal LOST OMENS 


Duration 1 minute 


You undermine the target spell, making it easier to defend 
against. You reduce the spell's level by 1, and targets of the 
spell gain a +2 status bonus to any saving throws, skill checks, 
AC, or DC against it. 

You can't reduce the spell's level below its minimum. For 
example, a 5th-level cone of cold would remain 5th-level, but 
a 5th-level fireball would become 4th-level. Targets still gain 
all the other benefits, even if you don't reduce the spell's level. 


CELESTIAL BRAND FOCUS 5 
UNCOMMON | CURSE | NECROMANCY | SORCERER | 

Cast *9 somatic 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 evil creature 

Duration 1 round 


Vicious claws grow from your fingers. They are finesse unarmed 
attacks that deal 1d4 slashing damage and 1d6 extra damage 
of a type determined by the dragon in your bloodline (see the 
table in dragon breath). Your scales from blood magic glow with 
faint energy, giving you resistance 5 to the same damage type. 
Heightened (5th) The extra damage increases to 2d6, and the 
resistance increases to 10. 
Heightened (9th) The extra damage increases to 3d6, and the 
resistance increases to 15. 


DRAGON WINGS 
Ce | morPH | sorcerer || 
Cast *95 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 


PLAYING THE 


t AFT ING 
8 TREASURE 


FOCUS 5 


TRANSMUTATION 


A blazing symbol appears on the target, cursing it to face divine 
justice. You and your allies receive a *1 status bonus to your 
attack rolls and skill checks against it. Anytime a good creature 
damages it, the good creature deals an additional 1d4 good 
damage. The target is then temporarily immune for 1 minute. 
Heightened (+2) The good damage increases by 1. 


DIABOLIC EDICT 


FOCUS 1 


UNCOMMON 
Casting *9 verbal 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing living creature 
Duration 1 round 


You issue a diabolic edict, demanding the target perform a 
particular task and offering rewards for its fulfillment. It gains 
a *1 status bonus to attack rolls and skill checks related to 
performing the task. If it refuses to perform the task you 
proclaimed, it instead takes a -1 status penalty to all its attack 
rolls and skill checks. 


DRAGON BREATH 


[UNCOMMON | EVOCATION | SORCERER | 
somatic, verbal 


FOCUS 3 


Leathery wings sprout from your back, giving you a fly Speed 
of 60 feet or your Speed, whichever is faster. When this 
spell's duration would end, if you're still flying, you float to 
the ground, as feather fall. You can increase the Focus Point 
cost by 1 to gain the effects of dragon claws as long as the 
wings last. 

Heightened (8th) The duration increases to 10 minutes. 


DRAIN LIFE FOCUS 3 


UNCOMMON | NECROMANCY | NEGATIVE | SORCERER 
Casting *9 somatic 


Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature 

Saving Throw basic Fortitude 

You close your hand and pull life energy from another creature 
into yourself. This deals 3d4 negative damage; the target 
must attempt a basic Fortitude save. You gain temporary Hit 
Points equal to the damage the target takes, after resolving 
its save and applying your blood magic if applicable. If the 
target's Hit Points were lower than the damage you dealt, you 
gain temporary Hit Points equal to their remaining Hit Points 
instead. The temporary Hit Points last for 1 minute. 
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4. 


m mes ae 

PATHFİNDER Conr RULEBOOK 3j 

s I rS E ed | 
ELEMENTAL BLAST FOCUS 5 


Ej EVOCATION | SORCERER | 
Ca 


sting *99 somatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet (burst only); Area 10-foot-radius burst, 30-foot 
cone, or 60-foot line 
Saving Throw basic Reflex 
You gather elemental energy and blast your foes in one 
of the various listed shapes of your choosing, dealing 8d6 
bludgeoning damage (or fire damage if your element is fire). 
This spell has your element' trait. 


duration of 1 minute and a single target, the spell instead lasts 
10 minutes. You can extend a spell only if you cast it from a 
spell slot lower than your highest spell slot, and you can have 
only one active spell at a time extended in this way. 


FAERIE DUST 

Cast *9 or more emm ERE 

Range 30 feet; Area 5-foot burst or more 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round 


FOCUS 1 


Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


ELEMENTAL MOTION 
UNCOMMON | EvocaTiON | SORCERER | 
Casting *99 somatic, verbal 
Duration 1 minute 
You call upon your element to propel you, improving your Speed 
depending on your element. This spell has your element's trait. 
* Air You gain a fly Speed equal to your Speed. 
* Earth You gain a burrow Speed of 10 feet. 
* Fire You gain a fly Speed equal to your Speed. 
* Water You gain a swim Speed equal to your Speed and 
can breathe underwater. 
Heightened (6th) You also gain a *10-foot status bonus to 
your Speeds. 
Heightened (9th) The status bonus increases to *20 feet. 


ELEMENTAL TOSS FOCUS 1 


EVOCATION | 


FOCUS 3 


SORCERER 


‘UNCOMMON | ATTACK | 
Casting *9» somatic 
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 


With a flick of your wrist, you fling a chunk of your elemental 
matter at your foe. Make a spell attack roll, dealing 1d8 
bludgeoning damage (or fire damage if your element is fire) on 
a success, and double damage on a critical success. This spell 
has your element's trait. 


You sprinkle magical dust in the spell's area, making those 

within easier to trick. Each creature in the area must attempt 

a Will save. For each additional action you use Casting the 

Spell, the burst's radius increases by 5 feet. 

Success The creature is unaffected. 

Failure The creature can't use reactions and takes a -2 status 
penalty to Perception checks and Will saves. 

Critical Failure As failure, and the creature also takes a -1 status 
penalty to Perception checks and Will saves for 1 minute. 

Heightened (+3) The initial radius increases by 5 feet. 


FEY DISAPREARANCE: FOCUS 3 


EZIUE CHANTMENT || SORCERER | 
Cast *9 somatic 


Duration until the end of your next turn 

You become invisible and ignore natural difficult terrain 

(such as underbrush). Any hostile action you use ends this 

invisibility, but you still ignore natural difficult terrain. 

Heightened (5th) If you use a hostile action, the invisibility 
doesn't end. 


FEY GLAMOUR 
Jp DO | SORCERER | 
Cast 99 s | 


omatic, verbal 
Range 30 feet; Area 30-foot burst or Targets up to 10 creatures 


Duration 10 minutes 


FOCUS 5 


Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8. 


EMBRACE THE PIT 

[menses cn. om Iscr Tnm 

Casting *9 verbal 

Duration 1 minute 

Devil horns grow from your skull, and your skin takes on 

features of the devil responsible for your diabolic bloodline. 

You gain resistance 5 to evil, fire, and poison, and resistance 1 

to physical damage (except silver). You can take good damage, 

even if you aren't evil, and you gain weakness 5 to good damage. 

Heightened (+2) The resistance to evil, fire, and poison increases 
by 5, the resistance to physical damage (except silver) by 2, 
and the weakness to good damage by 5. 


FOCUS 3 


EXTEND SPELL 


FOCUS 3 


You call upon fey glamours to cloak an area or the targets in 
illusion. This has the effect of either illusory scene on the area 
or veil on the creatures, as if heightened to a level 1 level lower 
than fey glamour, using fey glamour's range and duration. 


GLUTTON'S JAWS FOCUS 1 


Cast * somatic, verbal 


Duration 1 minute 

Your mouth transforms into a shadowy maw bristling with 
pointed teeth. These jaws are an unarmed attack with the 
forceful trait dealing 1d8 piercing damage. If you hit with your 
jaws and deal damage, you gain 1d6 temporary Hit Points. 
Heightened (+2) The temporary Hit Points increase by 1d6. 


GRASPING GRAVE FOCUS 5 


You call upon your blood's knowledge of the ancients to 
extend your magic. If your next action is to Cast a Spell with a 


| UNCOMMON | | NECROMANCY | SORCERER | 


somatic, verbal 


Casting * 
Range 60 feet; Area 20-foot radius on the ground 
Saving Throw Reflex 


Hundreds of skeletal arms erupt from the ground in the area, 

clawing at creatures within and attempting to hold them in 

place. The skeletal arms deal 6d6 slashing damage. Each 

creature in the area must attempt a Reflex save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage. 

Failure The creature takes full damage and a -10-foot 
circumstance penalty to its Speeds for 1 round. 

Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is 
immobilized for 1 round or until it Escapes. 

Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. 


HELLFIRE PLUME 


| UNCOMMON | EVIL | EVOCATION | FIRE | SORCERER 
Casting 99 somatic, verbal 
Range 60 feet; Area 10-foot radius, 60-foot-tall cylinder 
Saving Throw basic Reflex 

You call forth a plume of hellfire that erupts from below, 
dealing 4d6 fire damage and 4d6 evil damage. 

Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 1d6, and the evil 


damage increases by 1d6. 


FOCUS 5 


HORRIFIC VISAGE FOCUS 3 
| UNCOMMON | EMOTION | FEAR | ILLUSION | MENTAL | sorcerer | visuAL | 
Cast*?> somatic, verbal — — 1 


Area 30-foot-radius emanation centered on you 

Saving Throw Will 

You briefly transform your features into the horrific visage of 

a hag, striking fear into your enemies. Foes in the area must 

attempt a Will save. 

Success The foe is unaffected. 

Failure The foe is frightened 1. 

Critical Failure The foe is frightened 2. 

Heightened (5th) Foes in the area are frightened 1 on a success, 
frightened 2 on a failure, and frightened 3 and fleeing for 
1 round on a critical failure. They are still unaffected on a 
critical success. 


JEALOUS HEX 


FOCUS 1 


| sorcERER 


Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration up to 1 minute 

You draw forth a hag's innate jealousy to deny a target its 
greatest attribute. The target is cursed with an adverse 
condition depending on its highest ability modifier: Strength 
(enfeebled); Dexterity (clumsy); Constitution (drained); or 
Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma (stupefied). On a tie, the 
creature decides which of the conditions associated with 
the tied ability modifiers to take. The target must attempt a 
Will save. 

Success The target is unaffected. 

Failure The condition's value is 1. 

Critical Failure The condition's value is 2. 

At the start of each of your turns, the target can attempt 
another Will save, ending the effect on a success. 


FOCUS 3 


Range 120 feet; Area 5-foot burst or more 
Saving Throw basic Fortitude; Duration 1 minute 


Ground in the area turns swampy and fetid. The area is 
difficult terrain. The sludge at the bottom of the morass 
animates into diminutive sludge beasts that have a demonic 
appearance. These don't function as normal creatures, but 
they swarm over creatures in the swamp and exude a noxious 
stench. The swamp deals 1d6 poison damage; creatures that 
end their turn in the area must attempt a basic Fortitude 
save. You can increase the number of actions it takes to Cast 
the Spell. For each additional action, increase the burst's 
radius by 5 feet. 

Heightened (+2) The damage increases by 1d6, and the initial 

radius increases by 5 feet. 


TENTACULAR LIMBS 


UNCOMMON | MORPH | SORCERER | TRANSMUTATION 
somatic 
Duration 1 minute 
Your arms turn into long, pliable tentacles, increasing 
your reach when you're delivering touch range spells and 
making unarmed Strikes with your arms (such as fist and 
claw Strikes) to 10 feet. This doesn't change the reach of 
your melee weapon attacks. During the duration, whenever 
you Cast a Spell, you can add an additional action to that 
spell's casting to temporarily extend your reach to 20 feet 
to deliver that spell. 
Heightened (+2) When you add an additional action to a spell 
to temporarily extend your reach, your reach increases by 
an additional 10 feet to deliver that spell. 


UNDEATH'SBLESSING —— — 


UNCOMMON | NECROMANCY | NEGATIVE 
somatic 
Range touch; Targets 1 living creature touched 
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute 
You instill within a creature the touch of the grave. For the 
duration, harm and heal spells treat the creature as undead. In 
addition, harm spells gain a +2 status bonus to the Hit Points 
restored to the target. 
If the target wishes to avoid the spell, it can attempt a Will 
save to reduce the effects. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected. 
Success The target heals half as much from heal and takes half 
as much damage from harm for 1 round. 
Failure Effects as described in the text. 
Heightened (+1) The status bonus to the Hit Points restored 
increases by 2. 


UNUSUAL ANATOMY 

| UNCOMMON | POLYMORPH | SORCERER | TRANSMUTATION | 
Cast *9 somatic 

Duration 1 minute 


FOCUS 1 


FOCUS 1 


| sorcerer | 


FOCUS 5 


EQUIPMENT 
| SPELLS 
NO 

HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


Pv 


GAME 


See menm c 


= 


E RULEBOOK 3 


You transform your flesh and organs into a bizarre amalgam 
of glistening skin, rough scales, tufts of hair, and tumorous 
protuberances. This has three effects: 

* You gain resistance 10 to precision damage and 
resistance 10 to extra damage from critical hits. If the 
resistance is greater than the extra damage, it reduces 
the extra damage to O but doesn't reduce the attack’s 
normal damage. 

* You gain darkvision. 

* Acid oozes from your skin. Any creature that hits you 
with an unarmed attack or with a non-reach melee 
weapon takes 2d6 acid damage. 

Heightened (+2) The resistances increase by 5, and the acid 
damage increases by 1d6. 


CHARMING WORDS FOCUS 1 
eo 
| | wizarD 


Cast 3 verbal 


Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 

Saving Throw Will; Duration until the start of your next turn 

You whisper enchanting words to deflect your foe's ire. The 

target must attempt a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes a -1 circumstance penalty to attack 
rolls and damage rolls against you. 

Failure The target can't use hostile actions against you. 

Critical Failure The target is stunned 1 and can't use hostile 
actions against you. 


YOU'RE MINE FOCUS5 DIMENSIONAL STEPS FOCUS 4 
LMS Mo 

Cast *99 somatic, verbal Cast *9 somatic 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature Range 20 feet 

Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round You teleport to a location up to 20 feet away within your line 
You manipulate the target's emotions, potentially allowing of sight. 


you to control it for a brief instant. The target must attempt 

a Will save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target is stunned 1. 

Failure On the targets next turn, it's stunned 1 and you 
partially control it, causing it to take a single action of your 
choice. If it has actions left, it can act normally. 

Critical Failure The target is controlled for 1 round. 


Heightened (+1) The distance you can teleport increases by 
5 feet. 


DIVINER'S SIGHT 


| uncommon | | oivination | Fortune | wizaro | 
Cast *9 verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing living creature 
Duration until the end of your next turn 


FOCUS 1 


Heightened (7th) On a failure, the target is controlled for 1 
round. On a critical failure, the target is controlled for up to 
1 minute; it receives a new Will save at the end of each of 
its turns, and on a success, the spell ends. 


WIZARD 


Wizards can gain the following school spells. 


AUGMENT SUMMONING FOCUS 1 


You glimpse into the target's future. Roll a d20; when the 
target attempts a non-secret saving throw or skill check, it 
can use the number you rolled instead of rolling, and the spell 
ends. Alternatively, you can instead reveal the result of the die 
roll for one of the target's secret checks during the duration, 
and the spell ends. Casting it again ends any active diviner's 
sight you have cast, as well as any active diviner's sight on 
the target. 


DREAD AURA FOCUS 4 


[uncommon | conven] wa 


Cast *> verbal 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature you summoned 

You augment the abilities of a summoned creature. The 
target gains a +1 status bonus to all checks (this also applies 
to the creature's DCs, including its AC) for the duration of its 
summoning, up to 1 minute. 


CALL OF THE GRAVE 


ATTACK |. NECROMANCY | WIZARD | 

Cast > somatic, verbal —— ^ 

Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature 

You fire a ray of sickening energy. Make a spell attack roll. 

Critical Success The target becomes sickened 2 and slowed 1 
as long as it's sickened. 


Success The target becomes sickened 1. 
Failure The target is unaffected. 


FOCUS 1 


| (ON |. AURA | ENCHANTMENT | EMOTION | FEAR] MENTAL f WIZARD | 
Cast 99 somatic, verbal 

Area 30-foot-radius emanation 

Duration sustained up to 1 minute 

You emit an aura of terror. Foes in the area are frightened 1 
and unable to reduce the condition. 


ELEMENTAL TEMPEST 

J UNCOMMON | evocation | weravacic | WIZARD | 
Cast *9 verbal 

Your spellcasting surrounds you in a storm of elemental 
energy. If the next action you take is to Cast a Spell from 
your wizard spell slots that's an evocation spell dealing 
acid, cold, electricity, or fire damage, a 10-foot emanation of 
energy surrounds you as you cast the spell. Foes in the area 
take 1d6 damage per spell level of the spell you just cast of 
the same damage type the spell deals (choose one if it deals 


FOCUS 4 


multiple types). Combine the damage from both elemental 
tempest and the other spell against foes who take damage 
from both before applying bonuses, penalties, resistance, 
weakness, and the like. 


ENERGY ABSORPTION 


UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | WIZARD | 
Cast O verbal; Trigger An effect would deal acid, cold, 
electricity, or fire damage to you. 


FOCUS 4 


You temporarily improve the target’s physique. The target 
gains a +2 status bonus to the next Acrobatics check, Athletics 
check, Fortitude save, or Reflex save it attempts. 


PROTECTIVE WARD 
UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | AURA | 
somatic 

Area 5-foot-radius emanation centered on you 
Duration sustained up to 1 minute 


FOCUS 1 


WIZARD | 


You gain resistance 15 to acid, cold, electricity, or fire damage 
from the triggering effect (one type of your choice). The 
resistance applies only to the triggering effect's initial damage. 
Heightened (+1) The resistance increases by 5. 


You emanate a shimmering aura of protective magic. You and 
any allies in the area gain a *1 status bonus to AC. Each time 
you Sustain the Spell, the emanation's radius increases by 5 
feet, to a maximum of 30 feet. EQ IPMENT 


SPELLS 


FORCE BOLT FOCUS1 SHIFTING FORM FOCUS 4 || 
| UNCOMMON | Evocation | Force | wizARD UNCOMMON | MORPH | TRANSMUTATION | WIZARD | 
Cast 9 somatic Cast 9 somatic. 


Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature 


MQ 


= THE AGE OF 


Duration 1 minute 


You fire an unerring dart of force from your fingertips. It 
automatically hits and deals 1d4+1 force damage to the target. 
Heightened (+2) The damage increases by 1d4+1. 


HAND OF THE APPRENTICE 


FOCUS 1 


[UNCOMMON |. ATTACK | Evocation | WIZARD | 


somatic 


Range 500 feet; Targets 1 creature 

You hurl a held melee weapon with which you are trained at 
the target, making a spell attack roll. On a success, you deal 
the weapon's damage as if you had hit with a melee Strike, 
but adding your spellcasting ability modifier to damage, 
rather than your Strength modifier. On a critical success, 
you deal double damage, and you add the weapon's critical 
specialization effect. Regardless of the outcome, the weapon 
flies back to you and returns to your hand. 


INVISIBILITY CLOAK 
Em 
Cast *99 somatic 
Duration 1 minute 

You become invisible, with the same restrictions as the 2nd- 
level invisibility spell. 

Heightened (6th) The duration increases to 10 minutes. 
Heightened (8th) The duration increases to 1 hour. 


LIFE SIPHON 


[UNCOMMON | HEALING Ee | WIZARD 

Cast 2 verbal; Trigger You expend one of your wizard spell 
slots to cast a wizard spell of the necromancy school. 

You use some of the spell’s magic to heal yourself, regaining 


1d8 Hit Points per level of the spell. 


PHYSICAL BOOST 


| UNCOMMON | TRANSMUTATION | WIZARD | 


FOCUS 4 


FOCUS 4 


FOCUS 1 


Range touch; Targets 1 living creature 
Duration until the end of the target's next turn 


. LOST OMENS 


You gain one of the following abilities of your choice. You can 
Dismiss this spell. | 
* You gain a 20-foot status bonus to your Speed. | PLAYING THE 
* You gain a climb or swim Speed equal to half your Speed. 5 GAME 
* You gain darkvision. xl 
* You gain a pair of claws. These are agile finesse i - GAME 
unarmed attacks that deal 1d8 slashing damage. . MA 
* You gain scent 60 feet (imprecise). 


VIGILANT EYE 

UNCOMMON | Divination | wizanp | 
Cast *9 somatic 
Range 500 feet 
Duration 1 hour 
You create an invisible eye sensor, as clairvoyance (page 324). f i 
When created, this eye must be in your line of sight. 

When the spell’s duration ends, you can spend 1 Focus 
Point as a free action to extend the duration for another hour, 
though as normal, it ends immediately during your next daily 
preparations. 


FOCUS 4 


8 TREASURE 


- APPENDI 
H] 


V 


- 
"^K 
l^ 


: 


FOCUS 1 


WARPED TERRAIN 


Range 60 feet; Area 5-foot burst or more 

Duration 1 minute 

You create illusory hazards that cover all surfaces in the area 

(typically the ground). Any creature moving through the illusion 

treats the squares as difficult terrain. A creature can attempt 

to disbelieve the effect as normal after using a Seek action or 

otherwise spending actions interacting with the illusion. If it 

successfully disbelieves, it ignores the effect for the remaining 

duration. For each additional action you use casting the spell, 

the burst's radius increases by 5 feet, to a maximum of 10 extra 

feet for 3 actions. 

Heightened (4th) You can make the illusion appear in the air 
rather than on a surface, causing it to function as difficult 
terrain for flying creatures. 


JATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK J 
eae p as T rr wer" | 


RITUALS 


A ritual is an esoteric and complex spell that anyone can cast. It takes much longer to cast 
a ritual than a normal spell, but rituals can have more powerful effects. 


$a Ag9ÓQg9P— — ——————————————— 


CASTING RITUALS 
When you take charge of a ritual, you are its primary caster, 
and others assisting you are secondary casters. You can be a 
primary caster for a ritual even if you can't cast spells. You 
must know the ritual, and the ritual's spell level can be no 
higher than half your level rounded up. You must also have 
the required proficiency rank in the skill used for the ritual's 
primary check (see Checks below), and as the primary caster, 
you must attempt this skill check to determine the ritual's 
effects. The primary skill check determines the tradition. 
Rituals do not require spell slots to cast. You can 
heighten a ritual up to half your level rounded up, decided 
when the ritual is initiated. A ritual always takes at least 
1 hour to perform, and often longer. While a ritual is a 
downtime activity, it's possible—albeit risky—to perform 
a ritual during exploration with enough uninterrupted 
time. A ritual’s casting time is usually listed in days. Each 
day of casting requires 8 hours of participation in the 
ritual from all casters, with breaks during multiday rituals 
to allow rest. One caster can continue a multiday ritual, 
usually with some light chanting or meditation, while the 
other casters rest. All rituals require material, somatic, and 
verbal components throughout their casting time. 


LEARNING RITUALS 


Learning a ritual does not count against any limits on 
spells in your spell repertoire or on any other normal 
spellcasting ability. Rituals are never common, though if 
you look hard, you can probably find someone who can 
perform an uncommon ritual for you. They may still be 
unwilling to teach it to you. 


COST 


A ritual’s Cost entry lists valuable components required to 
cast the ritual. If a ritual doesn't have any such components, 
it won't have a Cost entry. The cost is consumed when you 
attempt the primary skill check. Costs are often presented 
as a base cost multiplied by the target's level and sometimes 
the spell’s level. If the target's level is lower than 1, multiply 
the cost by 1 instead. Heightened versions that increase 
the base cost multiply it by the target's level or another 
value as appropriate. Most rituals that create permanent 
creatures, such as create undead, use costs based on the 
level of the spell, as presented on Table 7-1. 


SECONDARY CASTERS 

Many rituals need additional secondary casters, who also 
don’t need to be able to cast spells. Unlike a primary caster, 
a secondary caster doesn’t need a minimum level or skill 


TABLE 7-1: CREATURE CREATION RITUALS 


Creature Level Spell Level Required Cost 
-1or 0 2 15 gp 

1 2 60 gp 

2 3 105 gp 
3 3 180 gp 
4 4 300 gp 
5 4 480 gp 
6 5 750 gp 
7 5 1,080 gp 
8 6 1,500 gp 
9 6 2,100 gp 
10 7 3,000 gp 
1i 7 4,200 gp 
12 8 6,000 gp 
13 8 9,000 gp 
14 9 13,500 gp 
15 9 19,500 gp 
16 10 30,000 gp 
17 10 45,000 gp 


proficiency. The Secondary Casters entry, if present, indicates 
the minimum number of secondary casters required. 


CHECKS 


At the ritual’s culmination, you must attempt the skill 
check listed in the Primary Check entry to determine the 
ritual’s outcome. Primary checks usually have a very hard 
DC for a level that’s twice the ritual’s spell level. As with 
other downtime activities, fortune and misfortune effects 
can’t modify your checks for the ritual, nor can bonuses 
or penalties that aren’t active throughout the process. 

The GM can adjust the DCs of rituals, add or change 
primary or secondary checks, or even waive requirements 
to fit specific circumstances. For example, performing a 
ritual in a location where ley lines converge on the night 
of a new moon might make a normally difficult ritual 
drastically easier. 


SECONDARY CHECKS 
Often, a ritual requires secondary checks to represent aspects 
of its casting, usually with a standard DC for a level twice 
the ritual’s spell level. A different secondary caster must 
attempt each secondary check. If there are more secondary 
casters than checks, the others don’t attempt any. 
Secondary casters attempt their checks before you 
attempt the primary check; no matter their results, the 
ritual proceeds to the primary check. Secondary checks 
affect the primary check depending on their results. 


Critical Success You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the 
primary check. 

Success No bonus or penalty. 

Failure You take a -4 circumstance penalty to the primary 
check. 

Critical Failure As failure, and you reduce the degree of 
success of the primary skill check by one step. 


EFFECT 


A ritual’s effect depends on the result of the primary check. 
If an effect lists a save DC, use your spell DC for the ritual’s 
magic tradition (or 12 + your level + your highest mental 
ability modifier, if you don’t have a spell DC). 


RITUALS 


The following rituals are just a small sample of the many 
that exist. 


ANIMATE OBJECT 
| UNCOMMON | TRANSMUTATION | | 

Cast 1 day; Cost rare oils, see Table 7-1; Secondary Casters 1 

Primary Check Arcana (expert); Secondary Checks Crafting 

Range 10 feet; Target 1 object 

You transform the target into an animated object with a level 

up to that allowed by Table 7-1 and of a type corresponding 

to the object (so a broom would become an animated broom). 

Critical Success The target becomes an animated object of the 
appropriate type. If it’s at least 4 levels lower than you, you 
can make it a minion. This gives it the minion trait, meaning 
it can use 2 actions when you command it, and commanding 
it is a single action that has the auditory and concentrate 
traits. You can have a maximum of four minions under your 
control. If it doesn't become a minion, you can give it one 
simple command. It pursues that goal single-mindedly, 
ignoring any of your subsequent commands. 

Success As critical success, except an animated object that 
doesn't become your minion stays in place and attacks 
anyone that attacks it or tries to steal or move it, rather 
than following your command. 

Failure You fail to create the animated object. 

Critical Failure You create the animated object, but it goes 
berserk and attempts to destroy you. 


ATONE 

Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense and offerings worth a total value 
of 20 gp x the target's level; Secondary Casters 1, must be 
the ritual's target 

Primary Check Nature or Religion (expert); Secondary Checks 
Nature or Religion (whichever is used for the primary check) 

Range 10 feet; Targets another creature of up to 8th level who 
is a worshipper of the same deity or philosophy as you 

You attempt to help a truly penitent creature atone for 

its misdeeds, typically actions contrary to your deity's 

alignment or anathema to your deity. If the creature isn't 


RITUAL 2 


RITUAL 4 


TABLE 7-2: RITUALS BY LEVEL 
2 Animate object 
Consecrate 
Create undead 
Inveigle 
Geas 
Atone 
Blight 
Plant growth 
Call spirit 
Planar ally 
Resurrect 
Awaken animal 
Commune 
Commune with nature 
Planar binding 
Primal call 
Legend lore 
Control weather 
Freedom 
Imprisonment 


co o o -40»05»05»05»0» 0101071 I 3 P CO nO n9 PY 


truly penitent, the outcome is always a critical failure. This 

ritual uses Nature if the target is a druid, and Religion in all 

other cases. 

Critical Success The creature receives absolution for its 
misdeeds, allowing it to regain standing with your deity. It 
returns to its previous alignment (if its alignment shifted) 
and regains any abilities it lost. Before the atonement is 
complete, the creature must perform a special quest or 
other task chosen by your deity, as befits its misdeeds. If 
completed during downtime, this task should take no less 
than 1 month. For 1 month, the target receives divine insight 
just before performing an act that would be anathema to 
your deity or contrary to your deity's alignment. 

Success As critical success, but the creature gains no special 
insight regarding its subsequent actions. 

Failure The creature does not receive absolution and must 
continue to meditate and redress its misdeeds. Any future 
atone rituals for the same misdeeds cost half as much and gain 
a *4 circumstance bonus to primary and secondary checks. 

Critical Failure The creature offends your deity and is 
permanently cast out from the faith. The creature can't 
rejoin your religion without a more direct intervention. 

Heightened (+1) Increase the maximum target level by 2 and 
the base cost by 20 gp. 


AWAKEN ANIMAL 

| UNCOMMON | DIVINATION | MENTAL | 

Cast 1 day; Cost herbs, 1/5 the value on Table 7-1; Secondary 
Casters 3 

Primary Check Nature (master); Secondary Checks Lore (any), 
Society, Survival 

Range 10 feet; Target 1 animal of up to the level on Table 7-1 


RITUAL 6 


11 d 


nii 


= 
a THE ABE OF 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
Dx GAME 


" 


A. 


INE uec maine mnc 
|: |ATHF IND Conr RULEBOOK Z3 
merry nes wre rer rt | 


You grant intelligence to the target, transforming it into 
a beast. If it was previously an animal companion or minion, it 
can no longer serve as one. 

Critical Success The target’s Intelligence, Wisdom, and 
Charisma modifiers each increase to +2 if they were lower, 
and it becomes helpful to you for awakening it. 

Success The target’s Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma 
modifiers increase to +0 if they were worse and it becomes 
friendly to you for awakening it. 

Failure You fail to awaken the target. 

Critical Failure You accidentally awaken the target with a 
pure bestial hatred toward you. The target's Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma modifiers increase to -2 if they were 
worse. It becomes hostile to you, attempting to destroy you. 


BLIGHT RITUAL 4 

J uncommon | necromancy | necarive | puawr f 

Cast 1 day; Secondary Casters 1 

Primary Check Nature (expert); Secondary Checks Survival 

Area 1/2-mile-radius circle centered on you 

Duration 1 year 

You twist and stunt plants in the area, causing them to wither. In 

addition to other dangers from failing plant life, this decreases 

the crop yield for farms. If you cast this ritual in an area affected 
by plant growth, blight attempts to counteract plant growth 
instead of producing its usual effect. 

Critical Success Completely spoil the crop yield in the area, or 
decrease the yield by half in an area with up to a 1-mile radius. 

Success Decease the crop yield in the area by half. 

Failure The ritual has no effect. 

Critical Failure The flora in the area changes in an unexpected 
way, determined by the GM but generally as contradictory 
to your true desires as possible (for instance, enriching 
crops when you would prefer to blight them). 


CALL SPIRIT 


RITUAL 5 


Critical Success The spirit is particularly cooperative, and 
even if it has strong reasons to deceive you, it takes a -2 
circumstance penalty to its Deception checks. 

Success You call the spirit. 

Failure You fail to call a spirit. 

Critical Failure One or more evil spirits appear and attack. 


COMMUNE RITUAL 6 


| UNCOMMON MON | DIVINATION ON | P PREDICTION 

Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense worth a total value of 150 gp; 
Secondary Casters 1 

Primary Check Occultism (master) or Religion (master); 
Secondary Checks Occultism or Religion (whichever is used 
for the primary check) 

Duration up to 10 minutes 

You call upon an unknown planar entity to answer questions; 

this is a servitor of your deity if you have one and use Religion. 

You can ask up to seven questions that could be answered 

with “Yes” or “No.” The entity is likely to know answers related 

to its purview; a servitor of Gozreh would likely know about 

unnatural weather patterns and a servitor of Desna would likely 

know someone's travel route. The entity answers with one word 

answers such as “Yes,” “No,” “Likely,” and “Unknown,” though its 

answers always reflect its own agenda and could be deceptive. 

Critical Success You contact a more powerful entity aligned 
strongly with your interests, possibly even your deity. The 
entity won't attempt to deceive you, though it still might not 
know the answers. When it’s important to provide clarity, the 
entity will answer your questions with up to five words, such 
as “If you leave immediately” or “That was true once.” 

Success You can ask your questions and receive answers. 

Failure You fail to contact a planar entity. 

Critical Failure You are exposed to the enormity of the cosmos 
and are stupefied 4 for 1 week (can't remove by any means). 


COMMUNE WITH NATURE RITUAL 6 


Cast 1 hour; Cost rare candles and incense worth a total value 
of 50 gp; Secondary Casters 1 

Primary Check Occultism (expert) or Religion (expert); 
Secondary Checks Occultism or Religion (whichever isn't 
used for the primary check) 

Duration up to 10 minutes 


You tear the veil to the afterlife and call a spirit from its final 
resting place. You must call the spirit by name, and you must 
provide a connection to the spirit, such as a possession, a 
garment, or a piece of its corpse. A spirit unwilling to heed 
your call can attempt a Will save to avoid it; on a critical 
success, a trickster spirit Impersonates the spirit you meant 
to call. The DC of the Will save is 2 lower if you haven't met 
the spirit in life. Either way, the spirit appears as a wispy form 
of the creature you meant to call. Each minute of the duration, 
you can ask the spirit a question. It can answer how it pleases 
or even refuse to answer. If the spirit isn't in the afterlife (such 
as if it's an undead), all results other than critical failures use 
the failure effect. 


Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense worth a total value of 60 gp; 
Secondary Casters 1 

Primary Check Nature (master); Secondary Checks Nature 

Duration up to 10 minutes 

As commune, except you contact the primal spirits of 

nature, which know about animals, beasts, fey, fungi, plants, 

topography, and natural resources within a 3-mile radius. 


CONSECRATE RITUAL 2 

Cast 3 days; Cost rare incense and offerings worth a total 
value of 20 gp x the spell level; Secondary Casters 2, must 
be worshippers of your religion 

Primary Check Religion; Secondary Checks Crafting, Performance 

Range 40 feet; Area 40-foot-radius burst around an immobile 
altar, shrine, or fixture of your deity 

Duration 1 year 

You consecrate a site to your deity, chanting praises and 

creating a sacred space. While within the area, worshippers 


of your deity gain a +1 status bonus to attack rolls, skill 

checks, saving throws, and Perception checks, and creatures 

anathema to your deity (such as undead for Pharasma or 

Sarenrae) take a -1 status penalty to those checks. Attacks 

made by worshippers of your deity within the area deal 1 

damage of one of your deity's alignment types (your choice); 

if your deity is true neutral, you don't gain this benefit. 

Critical Success The consecration succeeds, and it either 
lasts for 10 years instead of 1 or covers an area with 
twice the radius. Occasionally, with your deity's favor, 
this might produce an even more amazing effect, such as 
a permanently consecrated area or the effect covering an 
entire cathedral. 

Success The consecration succeeds. 

Failure The consecration fails. 

Critical Failure The consecration fails spectacularly and 
angers your deity, who sends a sign of displeasure. For at 
least 1 year, further attempts to consecrate the site fail. 

Heightened (7th) The consecrated area also gains the effects 
of the dimensional lock spell, but the effect doesn't attempt 
to counteract teleportation by worshippers of your deity. 
The cost increases to 200 gp x the spell level. 


CONTROL WEATHER 


UNCOMMON | EVOCATION 

Cast 1 day; Secondary Casters 1 

Primary Check Nature (master); Secondary Checks Survival 

Area 2-mile-radius circle centered on you 

Duration 4d12 hours 

You alter the weather, making it calm and normal for the 

season or choosing up to two effects based on the season. 
* Spring drizzle, heat, hurricane, sleet, thunderstorm, 

tornado 
* Summer drizzle, downpour, extreme heat, hail, heat 
* Autumn cold weather, fog, mild heat, sleet 
* Winter blizzard, mild cold, extreme cold, thaw 

You can't specifically control the manifestations, such as the 

exact path of a tornado or the targets of lightning strikes. 

Critical Success You change the weather as desired and can 
affect a larger area (up to a 5-mile-radius circle), or a longer 
duration (any number of additional d12 hours, up to 16d12). 

Success You change the weather as desired. 

Failure You fail to change the weather as desired. 

Critical Failure The weather changes in an unanticipated way, 
determined by the GM but generally as contradictory to 
your true desires as possible (for instance, a terrible storm 
emerges when you would prefer good weather). 

Heightened (9th) You can create unseasonable weather and 

contradictory weather effects, such as extreme cold and 

a hurricane. You can make the weather calm and normal 

weather for a different season or choose weather effects 

from any seasons list. 


CREATE UNDEAD 


| UNCOMMON } EVIL | necromancy | 
Cast 1 day; Cost black onyx, see Table 7-1; Secondary Casters 1 


RITUAL 8 


RITUAL 2 


Primary Check Arcana (expert), Occultism (expert), or Religion 
(expert); Secondary Checks Religion 

Range 10 feet; Target 1 dead creature 

You transform the target into an undead creature with a 

level up to that allowed in Table 7-1. There are many versions 

of this ritual, each specific to a particular type of undead 

(one ritual for all zombies, one for skeletons, one for ghouls, 

and so on), and the rituals that create rare undead are also 

rare. Some forms of undead, such as liches, form using their 
own unique methods and can't be created with a version of 
create undead. 

Critical Success The target becomes an undead creature of the 
appropriate type. If it's at least 4 levels lower than you, you 
can make it a minion. This gives it the minion trait, meaning 
it can use 2 actions when you command it, and commanding 
it is a single action that has the auditory and concentrate 
traits. You can have a maximum of four minions under your 
control. If it's intelligent and doesn't become a minion, the 
undead is helpful to you for awakening it, though it's still 
a horrid and evil creature. If it's unintelligent and doesnt 
become a minion, you can give it one simple command. It 
pursues that goal single-mindedly, ignoring any of your 
subsequent commands. 

Success As critical success, except an intelligent undead that 
doesn't become your minion is only friendly to you, and 
an unintelligent undead that doesn't become your minion 
leaves you alone unless you attack it. It marauds the local 
area rather than following your command. 

Failure You fail to create the undead. 

Critical Failure You create the undead, but its soul, tortured by 
your foul necromancy, is full of nothing but hatred for you. 
It attempts to destroy you. 


FREEDOM 

[wenn [rmm] 

Cast 1 day; Cost valuable oils and objects associated with the 
target worth a total value of 100 gp x the spell level x the 
target's level; Secondary Casters 2 

Primary Check Arcana (legendary) or Occultism (legendary); 
Secondary Checks Society 

Range see text; Target 1 creature 

You perform a ritual to free a creature imprisoned, petrified, 

or otherwise put into stasis by any magical effects from all 

such effects, even effects like imprisonment that don't have a 

duration, as long as freedom's spell level is equal to or higher 

than the effect's spell level. To perform the ritual, you must 

be within 10 feet of the target, or within 10 feet of the place 

where the target was imprisoned (in the case of effects that 

trap the creature in an unreachable prison, like the oubliette 

form of imprisonment). You must know the name of the 

creature and details of its background; if the creature is not 

a close associate, a failure or critical failure on a secondary 

Society check reduces even a critical success on the primary 

check to a failure. 

Critical Success You free the target from all magical effects 
imprisoning it, petrifying it, or putting it into stasis. It gains 


RITUAL8 


SPELLS 


^w DO 
m 


| 
| 


HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


GAME 


IIE 2 (DIRE en e ci —— 
JSATHFIND :) CORE RULEBOOK J 
E SS lit n "a e ed | 


a +1 status bonus to saving throws to resist those same 
magical effects for 1 week. 

Success You free the target from all magical effects imprisoning 
it, petrifying it, or putting it into stasis. 

Failure You fail to free the target. 

Critical Failure The magical effects imprisoning the target, 
petrifying the target, or putting it into stasis affect you and 
all secondary casters. 


GEAS 

J UNCOMMON | CURSE | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL | 

Cast 1 day; Secondary Casters 1 

Primary Check Arcana (expert), Occultism (expert), or Religion 
(expert); Secondary Checks Society or Legal Lore 

Range 10 feet; Target 1 creature of a level no greater than 
double the geas ritual's level 

Duration see text 
You enforce a magic rule on a willing target, forcing it to 
either perform or refrain from carrying out a certain act. A 
geas to perform an act is usually conditional, such as, "Always 
offer hospitality to strangers seeking a place to stay.” An 
unconditional geas to perform a certain act doesn't require the 
target to perform that act exclusively, though it must prioritize 
the task above all leisurely pursuits. The most common geas 
to refrain from carrying out an act is a specification to avoid 
violating a contract. In those cases, the secondary caster 
usually takes charge of making sure the wording of the 
contract is attuned correctly with the ritual's magic. Because 
the target is willing, geas can have a duration that lasts for 
as long as the target agrees to. If the target is unable to fulfill 
the geas, it becomes sickened 1, and the sickened condition 
increases by 1 for each consecutive day it is prevented from 
following the geas, to a maximum of sickened 4. The sickened 
condition ends immediately when it follows the geas again; it 
can't remove the sickened condition in any other way. Only 
powerful magic such as a wish spell can remove the effects of 
geas from a willing target. 

Critical Success The geas succeeds, and the target receives a 
+1 status bonus to skill checks that directly uphold the geas 
(at the GM's discretion). 

Success The geas succeeds. 

Failure The geas fails. 

Critical Failure The geas fails, and you are instead affected 
by the geas you were attempting to place on the target. 
You are considered an unwilling target, so the geas can be 
counteracted with a remove curse spell. 

Heightened (5th) You can use geas on an unwilling creature; 
it can attempt a Will save to negate the effect. If the target 
fails this Will save, the geas lasts up to 1 week. A remove 
curse spell can counteract a geas on an unwilling creature, 
in addition to powerful magic such as a wish spell. A clever 
unwilling creature can subvert the geas by contriving 
situations that prevent it from complying, but in that case it 
becomes sickened (as described above). 

Heightened (7th) As 5th level, but the geas lasts for up to 
1 year on an unwilling creature. 


RITUAL 3 


Heightened (9th) As 5th level, but the geas lasts for a duration 
you choose (even unlimited) on an unwilling creature. 


IMPRISONMENT RITUAL8 
Cast 1 day; Cost reagents to construct the magical prison 
worth a total value of 800 gp x the target's level; Secondary 

Casters 6 

Primary Check Arcana (legendary) or Occultism (legendary); 

Secondary Checks Crafting, Society 

Range 10 feet; Target 1 creature of up to 16th level 

You perform a ritual to imprison a creature in one of several 
forms. While some versions of this ritual offer all of the forms, 
others include only a single form or only a few of them. 
Whichever form you use, the effect can't be counteracted, 
though it can be ended by freedom. Some forms of imprisonment 
can be ended by other means. Because the ritual requires the 
target to remain within 10 feet at all times, it typically requires 
you to subdue the target first. 

* Chains You bind the creature with chains, rendering it 
unable to use any actions other than to speak. Other 
creatures that attempt to approach, harm the chains, or 
free the trapped creature in any way must succeed at a 
Will save or be unable to do so forever. The chains have 
Hardness equal to 5 x the imprisonment ritual's spell 
level, and double that many Hit Points. Destroying the 
chains frees the target. 

* Prison You render the creature completely unable to 
leave a particular confined area or structure of your 
choice, such as a jail cell or sealed cave. The magic also 
prevents the creature from damaging its prison, either 
directly or indirectly, to break free. If the creature's 
prison is entirely destroyed by some external force, 
the creature is freed, though for some larger or natural 
prisons, this might be unfeasible. 

* Slumber (sleep effect) You put the creature into an eternal 
sleep. It ceases aging and doesn't require food or drink. A 
single sincere physical display of affection from a creature 
who genuinely loves the target-whether romantically, 
filially, or otherwise—frees it from the slumber. This form 
of imprisonment is also enchantment magic. 

* Temporal Stasis You send the creature into a state of 
suspended animation outside the flow of time. The 
creature doesn't grow older and can't be affected by any 
effect from within the normal timestream. While casting 
this ritual, you can optionally name any amount of time 
for the stasis; after this duration elapses, the stasis ends. 
Unlike other forms of imprisonment, temporal stasis can 
be counteracted by a dispel magic or haste spell. This 
form of imprisonment is also transmutation magic. 

* Object(9thlevelorhigher) You either shrink the creature 
to an inch in height or transform it into an insubstantial 
form whose body trails away into wisps below its head. 
Either way, you trap it inside a gem, jar, bottle, lamp, or 
similar container. The creature ceases aging and doesnt 
require food or drink. The creature is still aware of its 


surroundings and can move within the container and 
speak, but it cant use any other actions. Destroying 
the container kills the target rather than freeing it. This 
form of imprisonment is also transmutation magic. 

e Oubliette (10th level only) You entomb the target 
in a state of suspended animation deep beneath the 
surface of the ground and out of tune with reality so 
that it can't be reached by any means. You also prevent 
divinations from revealing the location where the 
imprisonment occurred. Powerful magic such as wish 
can reveal the location of the imprisonment, but even 
such magic cant free the target from the oubliette; 
only a 1Oth-level freedom ritual can do so. 

Critical Success You imprison the target. You can either use a 
form of imprisonment that usually requires 1 additional spell 
level, or give any creatures trying to use a freedom ritual 
to rescue the target a -2 circumstance penalty to checks 
associated with that ritual. 

Success You imprison the target. 

Failure You fail to imprison the target. 

Critical Failure You imprison yourself and the secondary casters 
in the same way you intended to imprison the target. 

Heightened (9th) You can use the object form of imprisonment 
in addition to the other options, and you can target a creature 
of up to 18th level. The base cost increases to 2,000 gp. 

Heightened (10th) You can use the object and oubliette forms 
of imprisonment in addition to the other options, and you 
can target a creature of up to 20th level. The base cost 
increases to 6,000 gp. 


INVEIGLE 


| UNCOMMON | ENCHANTMENT | MENTAL 

Cast 1 day; Cost rare oils worth a total value of 10 gp x the 
target's level 

Primary Check Arcana (expert), Occultism (expert), or 
Religion (expert) 

Range 10 feet; Target 1 creature of a level no greater than 
double the inveigle ritual's level 

Duration 1 year or until dismissed 

You win over the target's mind, causing it to see you as a close 

and trusted friend and look upon your every suggestion as 

reasonable. The target is helpful toward you, so it will go out 

of its way to help you. As with any other helpful creature, 

there are limits to what you can ask of it. If you ever ask 

the target to do something completely against its nature or 

needlessly harmful to the target or its interests, not only does 

it refuse, but it also can attempt a Will save to end the effect 

early. Because of the casting time and range, it's generally 

difficult to cast this ritual unless the target is willing (perhaps 

convinced the ritual will have some other effect) or restrained. 

If the creature is unwilling to accept the ritual, it can attempt 

a Will save to negate the effect. 

Critical Success The ritual succeeds and the target takes a -4 
status penalty to Will saves to end the effect. 

Success The ritual succeeds. 

Failure The ritual fails. 


RITUAL 2 


Critical Failure The ritual fails and the target instead hates 
you, becoming hostile to you for the duration. 

Heightened (6th) You can use inveigle on a creature up to 1 mile 
away throughout the casting, as long as you have a lock of 
hair, a drop of blood, or some other piece of the creature's body, 
which you mix into the oils used in the cost. The base cost 
increases to 100 gp. The duration is shorter than normal, based 
on how large a piece of the creature's body you use. Blood, hair, 
scales, and the like cause the ritual to last 1 week, while a hand 
or other substantial body part causes the ritual to last 1 month. 


LEGEND LORE RITUAL 7 

Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense worth a total value of 300 gp; 
Secondary Casters 2 

Primary Check Occultism 
Performance, Society 

You attempt to learn useful legends about a particular 

subject, which must be an important person, place, or thing. 

If the subject is present, increase the degree of success of 

your primary skill check by one step. If you have only vague 

information about the subject before attempting the ritual, 
decrease the degree of success of your primary skill check by 

one step. These modifiers cancel each other out if you have a 

subject present with little to no baseline information. 

Critical Success You recite legends, tales, and lore about the 
subject over the course of an hour after the ritual ends. The 
information is mostly coherent, emphasizing more accurate 
or useful legends over those exaggerated over time. 

Success You recite mysterious legends, tales, and lore about 
the subject over the course of an hour after the ritual ends. 
These provide useful information for further inquiry but are 
generally incomplete or enigmatic. As is the nature of legends, 
you are likely to learn multiple contradictory versions. 

Failure You fail to learn any useful legends. 

Critical Failure Your mind becomes lost in the past. You can't 
sense or respond to anything in the present for 1 week except 
to perform necessities like breathing and sleeping. When you 
return, however, you can retrain one of your skills into a Lore 
based on the knowledge of the past you were uncontrollably 
viewing, as if you had spent 1 week retraining. 


(master) Secondary Checks 


PLANAR ALLY 


UNCOMMON | CONURATION 
Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense and offerings worth a total value 
of 2 gp x the spell level x the target's level; Secondary 
Casters 2, must share your religion 
Primary Check Religion (expert); Secondary Checks Diplomacy. 
Duration see text 
You call upon your deity to grant you aid in the form of a 
divine servitor of your deity's choice of a level no greater than 
double planar ally's spell level. While performing this ritual, 
the secondary casters entreat your deity, explaining what 
sort of assistance you need and why you need it; if the task is 
incredibly fitting to your deity, the GM can grant a circumstance 
bonus to the secondary Diplomacy check or rule that the check 


RITUAL 5 


EQUIPMENT 


arm 


EE Je 
Ew 


LOST OME 


HE AGE OF 


PLAYING THE 


GAME 


| B TREASURE 


ADD 
APPENDI 
ppan 


Ke 


- 


s 


is automatically a critical success. If the ritual succeeds, you 
must offer the servitor payment depending on factors such 
as the duration and danger of the task. Payment always costs 
at least as much as a consumable item of the creature's level, 
even for a short and simple task, and it often costs as much 
as a permanent magic item of the creature's level to persuade 

a creature to fight alongside you. If you use the ritual without 

good reason, the result is automatically a critical failure. 

Critical Success Your deity sends a servitor, and the servitor's 
payment costs only half as much as normal. If you ask for a 
particular servitor by name, your deity is likely to send that 
servitor unless the servitor is busy. 

Success Your deity sends a servitor. 

Failure Your deity does not send a servitor. 

Critical Failure Your deity is offended and sends a sign of 
displeasure or possibly even a servitor to scold or attack you, 
depending on your deity's nature. You must conduct an atone 
ritual to regain your former standing with your deity. 


PLANAR BINDING RITUAL 6 

| UNCOMMON. 

Cast 1 day; Cost warding diagram ingredients worth a total 
value of 2 gp x the spell level x the target's level; Secondary 
Casters 4 

Primary Check Arcana (master) or Occultism (master); Secondary 
Checks Crafting; Diplomacy or Intimidation; Arcana or 
Occultism (whichever isn't used for the primary check) 


— 
y) 
E Ü 


Range interplanar; Targets 1 extraplanar creature 

Duration varies 

You call forth an extraplanar creature of a level no greater than 
double that of the planar binding ritual’s level and attempt to 
bargain with it. The secondary caster attempting the Crafting 
check creates a warding diagram to prevent the extraplanar 
creature from attacking or leaving during the bargain; if that 
caster fails or critically fails, then instead of the usual effects 
of a failure or critical failure of the secondary skill check, the 
extraplanar creature can attack or leave instead of negotiate. 
You can also leave out this step, removing the need for a 
Crafting check, with the same result (if you’re summoning a 
good extraplanar creature you trust, for example). The creature 
can also attack or leave if you use any hostile action against it 
or if the warding diagram breaks. Once the diagram is complete, 
you and the secondary casters each take your places at specific 
points at the diagram's edge where power concentrates. 

You conjure the extraplanar creature within your wards and 
negotiate a deal with it, generally to perform a task for you in 
exchange for payment. A creature that doesn't wish to negotiate 
at all can attempt a Will save to stay on its home plane. Most 
good and neutral extraplanar creatures feel that they have 
something better to do than cater to the whims of mortals 
and require a significant gift, especially if your task poses 
significant risks. Evil extraplanar creatures are more likely to 
accept a bargain for a lower cost as long as it allows them to 
wreak havoc on the Material Plane or inflict evil upon the world 


along the way. Monetary prices usually range from the cost of 
a consumable item of the creature's level for a short and simple 
task to a permanent magic item of the creature's level or more 
to persuade the creature to fight alongside you. However, some 
extraplanar creatures may want payments other than money, 
such as permission to cast a geas on you to fulfill an unspecified 
later favor or obtain ownership of your soul via an infernal 
contract. If you can’t come to an agreement in a reasonable 
length of time after you've made your case, the extraplanar 
creature can return from whence it came at any time. 

Critical Success You call the extraplanar creature and bind it 
in the wards for up to a full day before it returns home, 
potentially allowing you to negotiate a better deal by 
threatening to leave it in the wards for the full day. 

Success You call the extraplanar creature. 

Failure You fail to call the extraplanar creature. 

Critical Failure You call something dark and horrible, unbound 
by your wards, and it immediately attempts to destroy you. 


PLANT GROWTH RITUAL 4 

| UNCOMMON | necromancy f PLANT | PosiTIVE 

Cast 1 day; Secondary Casters 1 

Primary Check Nature (expert); Secondary Checks Farming 
Lore or Survival 

Area 1/2-mile-radius circle centered on you 

Duration 1 year 

You cause the plants within the area to be healthier and more 

fruitful. In addition to other benefits of healthy plants, this 

increases the crop yield for farms, depending on your success. 

If you cast it in the area of a blight, plant growth attempts to 

counteract the blight instead of producing its usual effect. 

Critical Success Double the crop yield in the area, or increase 
the area to a 1-mile radius. 

Success Increase the crop yield in the area by one-third. 

Failure The ritual has no effect. 

Critical Failure The flora in the area changes in an unanticipated 
way, determined by the GM but generally as contradictory 
to your true desires as possible (for instance, blighting 
crops when you would prefer to enrich them). 


PRIMAL CALL 
UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | CONJURATION | 

Cast 1 day; Cost faerie circle ingredients worth a total value 
of 1 gp x the spell level x the target's level; Secondary 
Casters 4 

Primary Check Nature (master); Secondary Checks Crafting, 
Diplomacy, Survival 

Range 100 miles; Targets 1 animal, beast, fey, fungus, or plant 

Duration see text 

This functions as planar ally except you craft a faerie circle and 

call an animal, beast, fey, fungus, or plant from within 100 miles. 


RESURRECT RITUAL 5 

| UNCOMMON | HEALING | necromancy | 

Cast 1 day; Cost diamonds worth a total value of 75 gp x the 
target's level; Secondary Casters 2 


RITUAL 6 


Primary Check Religion (expert); Secondary Checks 
Medicine, Society 

Range 10 feet; Targets 1 dead creature of up to 10th level 
You attempt to call forth the target’s soul and return it to 
its body. This requires the target's body to be present and 
relatively intact. The target must have died within the past 
year. If Pharasma has decided that the target's time has come 
or the target doesn't wish to return, this ritual automatically 
fails, but you discover this after the successful Religion check 
and can end the ritual without paying the cost. 

Critical Success You resurrect the target. They return to life 
with full Hit Points and the same spells prepared and points 
in their pools they had when they died, and still suffering 
from any long-term debilitations of the old body. The target 
meets an agent of their deity during the resurrection who 
inspires them, granting them a *1 status bonus to attack 
rolls, Perception, saving throws, and skill checks for 1 
week. The target is also permanently changed in some 
way by their time in the afterlife, such as gaining a slight 
personality shift, a streak of white in the hair, or a strange 
new birthmark. 

Success As critical success, except the target returns to life 
with 1 Hit Point and no spells prepared or points in any 
pools, and still is affected by any long-term debilitations of 
the old body. Instead of inspiring them, the character's time 
in the Boneyard has left them temporarily debilitated. The 
target is clumsy 1, drained 1, and enfeebled 1 for 1 week; 
these conditions can't be removed or reduced by any means 
until the week has passed. 

Failure Your attempt is unsuccessful. 

Critical Failure Something goes horribly wrong-an evil spirit 
possesses the body, the body transforms into a special kind 
of undead, or some worse fate befalls the target. 

Heightened (6th) You can resurrect a target of up to 12th level, 
and the base cost is 125 gp. 

Heightened (7th) You can use resurrect even with only a small 
portion of the body; the ritual creates a new body on a 
success or critical success. The target must have died within 
the past decade. The ritual requires four secondary casters, 
each of whom must be at least half the target's level. The 
target can be up to 14th level, and the base cost is 200 gp. 

Heightened (8th) As 7th level, but the target can be up to 16th 
level and the base cost is 300 gp. 

Heightened (9th) You can use resurrect even without the 
body as long as you know the target's name and have 
touched a portion of its body at any time. The target must 
have died within the past century, and it doesn't gain the 
negative conditions on a success. The ritual requires eight 
secondary casters, each of whom must be at least half the 
target's level. The target can be up to 18th level, and the 
base cost is 600 gp. 

Heightened (10th) As 9th level, except it doesn't matter how 
long ago the target died. The ritual requires 16 secondary 
casters, each of whom must be at least half the target's 
level. The target can be up to 20th level, and the ritual's 
base cost is 1,000 gp. 


| 
| 


EQUIPMENT 


LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


PETE gg as EL OER fs LL 


[PATHFINDER CORE RULEBOOK Jig 
TRRISEN AA K í 
i = MAMMOTH LorDS 
qi, [re 


eo p" 


=RAZMIRAN) 9) P 


b» RUE. 
y 


“KYONIN’ 


/ARCADIAN OCEAN 


ITHUVIA 


GOLDEN ROAD 


(OBARI OCEAN) 


CHAPTER 8: 
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS 


Ten thousand years ago, the world of Golarion came close to ending. Earthfall, as this 
extinction-level event came to be known, saw the world pummeled by a shower of 
falling stars that sank continents, hollowed out new seas, and destroyed civilizations. It 
took centuries for the world to recover, and centuries more for society to rebuild, but 
recover it did. 


EQUIPMENT 


Dwarves ascended to the surface from the underground reaches of the Darklands 


- SPELLS 


in their legendary Quest for Sky, elves returned from the neighboring planet of 


Castrovel via a network of portals to reclaim their lands and traditions, and 
D 


ETT'1; 


gnomes from the mysterious First World sought shelter from a now-forgotten 
terror. Survivors from other ancestries who had sheltered through the terror and 


destruction of Earthfall emerged during the Age of Darkness LOST OMENS 
to reclaim their ancestral lands, from scrappy goblin tribes fr | OO 
with a knack for surviving despite all odds against them to ü — PLAYING THE 


industrious halflings who emerged from the ruins to found GAME 
societies of their own. 

But humanity made the most astounding recovery. Less than 
2,000 years after the near-extinction from Earthfall, the Age of 


Destiny saw the rise of many new human empires throughout 


the world. Humanity built wondrous structures, and its schools Ye sag T 
relearned magic that had been thought lost. Among these human [^ +4 

nations walked a man named Aroden—an immortal survivor of 
the devastation of Earthfall. Aroden had long since cultivated 
a following of loyal subjects who regarded him with awe, for ; 
immortality was but one of the wonders he'd achieved. Greatest Ve 
among these was his discovery of a shard of potent magic known A 
today as the Starstone, a fragment from the stars that fell during 
Earthfall, which had lodged at the bottom of the Inner Sea. Contact 
with this alien artifact assailed Aroden with phantasmagoric visions, 
subjected him to a series of deadly martial trials, and posed 
exhausting moral quandaries that challenged his limits more than 
any of the arduous experiences he had yet endured. He emerged from 
this test a living god, and his first divine act was to raise the Starstone 
and the mass of land on which it had lain from the bottom of the sea to 
form the Isle of Kortos—also known as Starstone Isle—where he then 
established the city of Absalom. 

In the centuries to follow, Absalom grew into one of the largest 
cities in the world, and Aroden's legacy grew alongside it. As the 
millennia passed, his attentions increasingly turned away from the 
concerns of the Inner Sea's inhabitants to otherworldly matters beyond 
mortal ken, but prophecy spoke of a time when he would return to 
Golarion and lead humanity triumphantly into an Age of Glory. As the 
time of Aroden's return drew near, entire nations undertook monumental 
preparations to welcome him back to Golarion. 

But instead, Aroden died, and with him the reliability of prophecy as well. 
Golarion was wracked by storms, war, and supernatural devastation as 
the god's death marked the beginning of a new age—a time of uncertainty, 
but also a time of opportunity. This is the Age of Lost Omens, an age in 
need of heroes like never before. 


BEYOND THE INNER SEA 


The Inner Sea region consists of the continent of Avistan 
and the northern portion of the continent of Garund, 
but it is only one part of a much larger world. Garund 
itself extends further south, and its southern reaches are 
home to several unique ancestries and cultures. As one 
travels east from the Inner Sea, the vast expanse of the 
continent of Casmaron stretches beyond the horizon. 
With the immense inland Castrovin Sea at its heart, 
Casmaron is the largest of Golarion’s continents and 
home to some of its oldest and most successful empires. 
Farther east of Casmaron lies the continent of Tian Xia, 
a region often called the Dragon Empires. The northern 
section of Tian Xia connects to Golarion’s northernmost 
continent, a frozen reach known as the Crown of the 
World. This continent forms a bridge between Tian Xia 
and Avistan over the north pole. South of Tian Xia lies 
the mysterious continent of Sarusan, of which little is 
known due to the powerful storms and vexing currents 
that shroud its shores. Heading west from the Inner Sea 
region, sailors encounter the shattered remnants of lost 
Azlant, a ruined continent that hosted one of humanity’s 
first empires until it was destroyed during Earthfall. 
Sailing farther west from these ruins eventually leads 
to the shores of Arcadia, a land with unusual magical 
traditions and powerful nations of its own. And beneath 
all of these lands, carved into the planet’s very crust, lie 
the twisting tunnels of the tripartite underground realm 
known collectively as the Darklands, which houses great 


horrors and dangers but equally great opportunities for 
triumph and treasure. 

In addition, Golarion is but one of 11 worlds that 
orbit its sun. To the vast majority of the planet’s 
denizens, the other 11 worlds are little more than points 
of light in the sky, but these worlds are not so distant as 
one might expect. The planets of Akiton and Castrovel 
are Golarion’s closest neighbors. Travelers from both 
have visited and in some cases settled on Golarion, 
most notably elves, who originally hail from Castrovel. 
Even the farthest planet, remote Aucturn, has influenced 
Golarion, with its alien inhabitants exerting a sinister 
touch on the world that recently put the entire planet 
in peril. The wise thus do not discount the dangers 
and wonders that dwell on other planets of Golarion’s 
solar system. 


THE GREAT BEYOND 


Countless planets lie beyond Golarion’s solar system, but 
even these myriad worlds of the universe, known as the 
Material Plane, are but a fragment compared to what 
lies in the multiverse beyond. Other planes of existence 
and strange dimensions wrap this reality in a series of 
layered, nested spheres, known collectively as the Great 
Beyond. This model of reality is as much a metaphor 
for concepts that mortal minds have difficulty grasping 
as a physical description, for within the Great Beyond, 
anything is possible. 


INNER SPHERE 


The core of the multiverse is the Inner Sphere. Here, the vast expanse of the Material 
Plane and its countless worlds can be found. The Elemental Planes surround the 
Material Plane like layered shells, with the Plane of Air on the inside, transitioning 
to the Plane of Water, then to the Plane of Earth, and finally to the Plane of Fire, 
in something of a reversal of order in which these elements most often appear on 
habitable planets. The planes of Positive and Negative Energy are also within the 
Inner Sphere, their opposing nodes of life and death, creation and destruction, light 
and dark forming the start and the end of all existence. 


OUTER SPHERE 


The scope of reality within the Outer Sphere is difficult to grasp. Here the gods dwell 
and the souls of the dead gather to be judged by the goddess of the dead, Pharasma, atop 
the spire in the realm that is her Boneyard. Anything is possible in the Outer Sphere, 
and its realms are as much manifestations of philosophies and belief as anything else. 
From the towering mountain of Heaven to the endless gulfs of the demon-held Abyss, 
be it the agonizing pit of Hell or the boundless wonders of Elysium, all of reality is 
represented within the Outer Sphere. Over time this reality erodes away and is recycled 
back into the raw material of life within the Positive Energy Plane. 


OTHER PLANES AND DIMENSIONS 


Some planes exist in the same physical or metaphysical space as others, overlapping 
these other planes like overlays of reality. They include the ghost world of the 
Ethereal Plane, which overlays the Inner Sphere; the dizzying vastness of the Astral 
Plane, which overlays almost all reality and fills the seemingly endless gulf between 
the Inner Sphere and the Outer Sphere; and the fey-haunted First World and the 
sinister Shadow Plane, which each overlay the Material Plane. Stranger reaches of 
the Great Beyond exist as well; some, such as the Dreamlands, are visited often (if 
accidentally), while others, such as the enigmatic Dimension of Time, are visited 
rarely, if ever. In all cases these dimensions cannot be accessed by normal means, and 
each has their own method of entry and exit. 


THE INNER SEA REGION 

Although infinite opportunities for adventure await on other continents, worlds, and 
planes, the Inner Sea region is the focus of the Pathfinder campaign setting. With 
dozens of nations, empires, frontiers, and wildlands, this region presents a huge range 
of opportunities for heroism and villainy, exploration and adventure! 

The following pages break down the Inner Sea region into 10 separate regions, each 
with its own themes. Only a brief overview of each region is presented here—enough 
to establish the setting and whet the imagination. If you’re interested in exploring 
Golarion and the Inner Sea region more, see the Pathfinder World Guide, Pathfinder 
Adventures, and Pathfinder Adventure Path volumes. Adventure paths present not only 
in-depth material about the region, but also full-length campaigns whose adventures 
bring a brand-new group of heroes all the way to the height of power! 

The year in the Inner Sea region is 4719 Absalom Reckoning (ar). As the calendar 
advances in the real world, time also progresses for Golarion. The Pathfinder Core 
Rulebook was first published in the year 2019, with the Inner Sea region’s corresponding 
year ending in the same two final digits. Golarion’s history is expansive, but two of the 
most significant events to shape the world occurred in —5293 ar, when Earthfall nearly 
brought an end to the world, and in 4606 ar, when Aroden, the god of humanity, died, 
and prophecies the world over began to fail, beginning the Age of Lost Omens. 

The map on page 416 depicts the Inner Sea region, further subdivided into the 10 
subregions explored on the following pages. The borders of these regions are thematic 
rather than political. For an in-depth exploration of the Inner Sea region and its dozens 
of nations and wildlands, see the Pathfinder Lost Omens World Guide. 


TIME 

Like Earth, Golarion spins on 
its axis once roughly every 24 
hours. A week has 7 days and 
a year has 52 weeks. To keep 
the calendar synchronized 
with the astronomical year, an 
extra leap day is tacked on to 
the second month of the year 
every 4 years. 


MONTHS AND DAYS 
The names of the months of 
the year are as follows in the 
Inner Sea region: 
Abadius (January) 
Calistril (February) 
Pharast (March) 
Gozran (April) 
Desnus (May) 
Sarenith (June) 
Erastus (July) 
Arodus (August) 
Rova (September) 
Lamashan (October) 
Neth (November) 
Kuthona (December) 
The names of the days are as 
follows: 
Moonday (Monday) 
Toilday (Tuesday) 
Wealday (Wednesday) 
Oathday (Thursday) 
Fireday (Friday) 
Starday (Saturday) 
Sunday (Sunday) 


m 


EQUIPMENT 


I 


SPELLS 
M T 


FJ oc. 


| THE AGE OF 
| LOST OMENS 


(CO 


B TREA 


SURE 


) CORE RULEBOOK 42 


MONT 


= — 


ABSALOM AND STARSTONE ISLE 
gg ———— 


At the heart of the Inner Sea stands the Isle of Kortos, 
raised from the waters thousands of years ago as 
Aroden's first deific act. This amazing feat marks the 
dawn of the Age of Enthronement and the first year of 
the Absalom Reckoning calendar. The city of Absalom 
itself, the largest in the Inner Sea region, sprawls on the 
southern shore of this isle, and at the city's heart stands 
the legendary Starstone Cathedral. Within the walls of 
this structure, the Starstone ever waits to test its next 
supplicants—the few mortals who pass this mystic test 
become gods themselves. This has made Absalom an 
oft-besieged metropolis, but in its nearly 5,000 years, it 
has never once fallen. 

Absalom, called by many the City at the Center of the 
World, boasts a population of over 300,000, and its culture 
is a true melting pot in both ancestry and belief. Even the 
city's architecture reflects this, as one might expect of a 
settlement of its age. From the towering and majestic 
temples of the Ascendant Court to the close-packed 
shops and guildhalls of the Petal District and the sagging 
shanties in the Puddles, Absalom's neighborhoods never 
fail to present a memorable skyline. Many world-reaching 
organizations were born in Absalom, notably the 
Pathfinder Society (page 436). 


The Isle of Kortos, also known as Starstone Isle, has 
a similarly diverse ecosystem. The verdant forests and 
grasslands of the west provide many of the resources 
Absalom needs, but to the east, the rugged stony desert 
known as the Scrape, the dangerous Riven Hills, and 
the newly formed necromantic wasteland known as the 
Tyrant's Grasp present far harsher climates. The Isle of 
Erran, just north of Starstone Isle, hosts the second-largest 
city in the area, Escadar. A rough seaport with more than 
its share of shady dealings and dangerous types, Escadar 
also hosts large shipyards and maintains a strong navy 
that helps to keep the surrounding waters of the Inner Sea 
safe. A number of smaller islands also skirt the coast of 
the Isle of Kortos—some barren, some serving as hideouts 
for criminals and outcasts. 

Rising from the center of the Isle of Kortos are the 
Kortos Mounts, a short but rugged range of tors that 
have, over the years, been ruled by minotaurs, harpies, 
dragons, and worse. A few treacherous passes allow 
travel through the mountains, but with the northern 
shore of the Isle of Kortos being dominated by the soggy 
tangles of Dunmire, these northern reaches offer little to 
draw anyone other than bandits and adventurers into 
these still-untamed lands. 


y i r 


BROKEN LANDS 


Se a a 0 — T NN EE a a 53 


Far to the north of Absalom sprawl the Broken Lands, 
nations and wildernesses united in their shared stature 
as fractured regions—places where life itself has taken 
a blow and the struggle to survive is simply part of 
daily reality. Not all of the Broken Lands are constantly 
fraught with peril, but regardless of where one might 
settle down in these parts’ tumultuous times, danger is 
rarely far from home. 

In some cases, the breaks are political. In the northeast, 
the nation of Brevoy has hung on the edge of civil war 
for many years, as the long-running feud between the 
traditional noble houses of Issia and the mercenary 
swordlords of Rostland maintain an ongoing state of 
tension that may be nearing a breaking point. But in the 
case of the oft-contested River Kingdoms, these political 
breaks have reached something of a draw, for here it is 
said that anyone might become the ruler of a nation—if 
they have the tenacity to seize the reins of rule. 

Elsewhere in the Broken Lands, the fractures are more 
spiritual. Razmiran, for example, is ruled by the living 
god Razmir, who demands the worship of all who dwell 
within his nation's borders and brooks no competition 
of faith. His priests act as police throughout the land, 
brutally enforcing their deity's laws. To the north in 


Mendev, these spiritual breaks are less obvious; this 
land struggles to reclaim its heritage in the wake of a 
century of occupation by a crusading force that, until a 
few years ago, stood as a bulwark against the demons 
who ruled the lands across the river to the west. 

These western lands are truly broken, in a physical 
sense, for in the chaotic times at the dawn of the Age 
of Lost Omens, powerful agents of the demon lord 
Deskari tore a hole in reality. The resulting wound in the 
landscape allowed legions of demons to pour through 
and devastate the lands once known as Sarkoris. 
Although heroes of the Fifth Crusade recently defeated 
Deskari and closed the rift, these lands are still known 
as the Worldwound. The main threat has been quelled, 
but demons still inhabit the region, and the blighted 
landscape struggles to return to normal. 

Perhaps the strangest of the Broken Lands lie near 
its heart. The rugged hills and plains of Numeria are 
home to many Kellid clans. However, in the distant 
past, the crash of a scientifically advanced starship 
brought strange aliens, mechanical monstrosities, and 
technological wonders to Golarion, but its fiery arrival 
left large reaches of the surrounding land blighted and 
blasted even to this day. 


TR INTRODUCTION 


ANGESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 


9.0. 


THE AGE OF 


LOST OMENS 
nedum 


PLAYING THE 
BAME 


BAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


EYE OF DREAD 


Tn Wi xc DS NEM ue pU 


The heart of the continent of Avistan has rotted. 

This region is dominated by Lake Encarthan, a large 
inland sea that was—until recently—a well-traveled hub 
for trade. To the southwest stands the militaristic nation 
of Molthune, which had long engaged in an intermittent 
war against its northern neighbor, Nirmathas, a wooded 
nation populated by folk who take their freedom 
seriously. An uprising of hobgoblins took advantage of 
this conflict, and while hostilities have since abated, the 
two nations now share their borders with a third: the 
newborn hobgoblin nation Oprak. 

North of these war-torn nations lie two other lands 
equally forged in the crucible of conflict. Until recently, 
the paladins and protectors of the small but strong 
nation of Lastwall stood fast against invasions from 
orcs, undead, and the like. The wild and rugged Hold of 
Belkzen, meanwhile, has long been held by those orcs, 
ever since they were driven up from the Darklands below 
by the dwarves during their Quest for Sky thousands of 
years ago. 

Still farther to the north is the nation of Ustalav, 
a collection of counties each beset with its own 
manifestation of horror and fear, ranging from the 
nightmarishly cosmic to the dreadfully infernal. 


It was from Ustalav that one of the greatest threats to the 
Inner Sea region emerged. The ancient lich Tar-Baphon— 
known as the Whispering Tyrant—has been defeated 
twice in the distant past—once by Aroden and once by 
the heroes of the Shining Crusade, but he has never been 
truly destroyed. When the magical seals that kept him 
imprisoned below the ominous tower of Gallowspire 
were finally sundered in 4719 An, Tar-Baphon emerged, 
bringing with him devastation on such a scale that 
the one-time nation of Lastwall, which bore the brunt 
of his return to the world, has been utterly scoured. It 
exists now only as the Gravelands—the nation that once 
stood watch over undead uprisings now consigned to an 
undeath of its own. While heroes temporarily thwarted 
the Whispering Tyrant's immediate plans shortly after he 
emerged, the lich remains an active menace. 

The Whispering Tyrant now rules a kingdom of the 
undead on the aptly named Isle of Terror in the center 
of Lake Encarthan. The nations lining Lake Encarthan's 
shores have all suffered to varying degrees under the 
Whispering Tyrant’s renewed influence, and some are 
pursuing unlikely alliances to resist him. The lich is 
gathering his resources on the Isle of Terror, and none 
can say where or when he will strike next. 


— Sse z- — — - 


GOLDEN ROAD 
————————ÓgP* — ————————— 


Trade and travel rule the pathways of the so-called 


Golden Road, known for its shining sands and economic 
strength. Much of this region consists of sprawling desert 
wilderness, but this does not mean that the Golden 
Road is sparse in population. Coastlines and rivers 
serve as the lifeblood of this region, and some caravans 
brave the heat and dangers of the desert to trade across 
northern Garund. Some of the oldest nations in the 
Inner Sea region command this region, and ancient lore 
and valuable treasures can be found amid the shifting 
sands and storied cities. 

The largest of these cities is the cosmopolitan 
Katapesh, where mercantilism is overseen by a strange 
group known as the Pactmasters. Much of the trade 
in Katapesh is in goods that can be freely exported or 
imported from throughout the Inner Sea region, but 
the city does just as much business in avenues normally 
regulated to the black markets of other societies. 

Qadira's cities may not be as individually large as 
Katapesh, but the nation's economy is perhaps the 
strongest. It's certainly the oldest in the region, with 
support from the long-established Padishah Empire of 
Kelesh to the east. This, coupled with the church of 
Sarenrae—perhaps the nation's most successful cultural 


export to the rest of the Inner Sea region—has secured 
Qadira's status as one of the most important centers of 
influence on the Golden Road. 

To the west, the five city-states of Thuvia control a 
legendary alchemical concoction called the sun orchid 
elixir, which grants nearimmortality to those who 
consume it. This treasured commodity is the keystone 
of Thuvia's place in the Golden Road. Further west, the 
nation of Rahadoum is perhaps the weakest mercantile 
link, but the fact that this society has eschewed the worship 
of gods to place its faith in the industry and talent of 
mortals alone gives the nation its own compelling draw. 

At the center of the Golden Road lies mighty Osirion, 
one of the oldest nations of the Inner Sea region. While 
Osirion was for a time ruled by Qadira, the legacies and 
monuments of its early days still stand tall and are an 
indisputable and iconic source of pride and identity to its 
people. The influence of Osirion's artisans, philosophers, 
and spellcasters has spread far and wide, particularly via 
the Esoteric Order of the Palatine Eye, far to the north in 
Ustalav, and the faith of Nethys, whose not-so-humble 
beginnings as a mortal wizard can be traced to the very 
beginning of Osirion's history during the ancient Age 
of Destiny. 


THE AGE OF LOST OMENS | 


ci uec etu 


P INTRODUCTION 
ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 

CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 


Lx 


THE AGE OF 


LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


Ne So. 


"m. 


Y due 


à " i " wh T 
E SaR 
>= = 


HIGH 


From fleets of pirates united under the Hurricane 
Queen of the Shackles to an ancient, subaquatic empire 
of shapechanging monsters led by the sinister veiled 
masters, the High Seas of Golarion present dangers 
both above and below the waves. Yet they also serve as 
important trade routes, with merchant ships traveling 
the waters to link powerful nations at opposite ends of 
continents. Sea captains brave the dangers of the High 
Seas hoping to partake in the fortunes to be made in 
trade, linking the ports of the Inner Sea itself to those 
on the shores of the Arcadian Ocean from the Mwangi 
Expanse to the Saga Lands. 

Piracy is one of the greatest dangers facing travel on 
the High Seas. The immense volcanic archipelago known 
as the Shackles serves as a haven for these pirates, with 
their Hurricane Queen providing just enough structure 
to keep them from going at each other’s throats. A great 
diversity of monsters and threats populate these islands, 
and the local pirates know which are safe and which to 
avoid. North of the Shackles lies Mediogalti Island. While 
its only significant port, Ilizmagorti, is a known safe 
harbor for pirates, it is the presence of the infamous Red 
Mantis assassins who rule the isle that gives this region 
its greatest infamy. 


Other ports present their own complications. The 
port-city of Promise on the remote isle of Hermea a few 
hundred miles west of Avistan rewards well those who 
can negotiate the privilege of trade, but such honors are 
hard won, for the dragon who rules this closed society 
does not allow just anyone to visit. Rumors of what goes 
on beyond Promise’s dock district range from tales of a 
perfect society to those of an oppressive government that 
affords no free will. Farther to the north, the elves of the 
Mordant Spire are even more closed to visitors, and for 
most sailors, the only thing the Mordant Spire offers is 
an unmistakable landmark for navigation, as the twisting 
spire can be seen for miles. 

Of all the regions along the Avistani and Garundi 
coastlines, though, none are more hazardous to travel 
than the waters tortured by the Eye of Abendego. This 
immense hurricane first formed at the onset of the Age 
of Lost Omens, when storms wracked all of Golarion in 
the wake of Aroden’s death. Unlike those other storms, 
though, this hurricane remained. Its winds and storm 
surge have destroyed several nations and transformed a 
previously key gulf into a navigational nightmare. What 
strange force caused and perpetuates the Eye of Abendego 
has, to date, eluded all investigation. 


IMPOSSIBLE LANDS 
—————————— sg —— ————————— 


Magic allows for astounding feats, yet even those 


who consider themselves experts in the magical arts 
pause in wonder before the spectacles to be found in 
the Impossible Lands. What is taken for granted in 
these strange and eclectic nations would be all but 
impossible elsewhere. 

Take Geb as an example. Here, the living are the 
minority, and undeath is the predominant way of life. 
Cruelty, sadism, and violence are the norm in Geb, as 
one might expect of a land ruled by a violent, undead 
dictator. This ghost, for whom the country was named, 
has ruled his nation for thousands of years, although 
for the past several centuries the day-to-day rule of the 
land fell to his queen, Arazni. Her recent disappearance 
(many would instead say “escape”) and abandonment 
of her duties have invigorated the ghost sovereign to 
once again take active leadership of his benighted realm. 

Geb has opposed its northern neighbor, Nex, for the 
entirety of its existence. Also named after its ruler, Nex 
is a cosmopolitan realm where magic is mundane. Nex 
himself has been missing for ages, yet in his absence 
the Arclords have ruled quite effectively. Here, golems 
patrol the streets, and the practice of fleshwarping is an 
accepted and legitimate industry. 


Between these two opposed nations lies a stretch of 
land known as the Mana Wastes, a blasted and blighted 
badland formed by the ancient wars between Nex and 
Geb. The very magic of these lands is damaged—or in 
many reaches dead entirely—and peculiar mutants flop 
and prowl through the ruins in search of prey. 

Only in the duchy of Alkenstar does life approach 
anything approximating normal, but even here the 
assumptions of the rest of the world are turned on 
their head. With magic being unpredictable, Alkenstar's 
citizens have turned instead to technology. The nation 
is home to metallurgists and machinists, and the art of 
gunsmithing gives them an excellent advantage in this 
part of the world. Exports of firearms have steadily 
increased over the years, and Alkenstar is emerging as a 
significant power of its own as a result. 

Across the waters of the Obari Ocean lies the final realm 
of the Impossible Lands: the island nation of Jalmeray. 
Here it isn't magic alone that allows for impossibilities 
but also focused self-control and perfection of the spirit. 
The people of Jalmeray have accomplished astounding 
physical feats and achieved remarkable intellectual 
insights using nothing more than ancient traditions of 
mysticism and self-perfection. 


^ 


1 


f 


INTRODUCTION 


ANGESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 


98. 
THE AGE OF 


LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


MWANGI EXPANSE 
N 


The Mwangi Expanse is home to a wide array of 


civilizations, both past and present, even as it holds the 
largest stretch of wilderness in the Inner Sea region. In 
fact, one of the first civilizations to rise from the ashes 
after Earthfall rose here in this land—the nation of Shory 
and its astounding flying cities, from which many modern 
customs of magic stem. 

Some Mwangi cities and kingdoms were lost far more 
recently than those ancient wonders. When the Eye of 
Abendego formed just over a century ago, its winds and 
waves flooded two significant realms along Garund’s 
west coast. Where once stood the nations of Lirgen and 
Yamasa now stretch only the Sodden Lands, a swath 
of swampland and salt marshes held by rival gangs of 
scavengers and monsters. Even more recently, a powerful 
city-state in the heart of the Mwangi Jungle, Usaro, fell 
when its brutal leader, Ruthazek the Gorilla King, was 
slain by adventurers. Usaro has been without a leader for 
only a few short years, but already its violent inhabitants 
have caused significant damage in their anarchic rioting. 
A long lineage of demonically infused Gorilla Kings has 
ruled Usaro over the centuries, and so a new one will 
likely soon rise to seize control of Usaro, for the moment 
this sinister region lacks a head to focus its wrath. 


Despite these instances of ruin and destruction, the 
Mwangi Expanse hosts a wealth of diverse and powerful 
city-states within its reaches. In Bloodcove, the ruthless 
mercantile league of the Aspis Consortium rules. Farther 
south along the coast stands Senghor, whose stance 
against both piracy and slavery place the city in stark 
contrast to its northern neighbor. The city-state of 
Nantambu lies far upstream from Bloodcove on the Vanji 
River, where its citizens carry on the ancient traditions 
of Old-Mage Jatembe in combining arcane and primal 
magic. Far to the southeast stands Mzali, which lies 
under the oppressive rule of the undead child-king 
Walkena, though a group of dissidents called the Bright 
Lions works to build resistance to the mummy’s reign. 
Then there is the city of Kibwe, where within its walls 
dwell an eclectic mix of people who have journeyed 
from afar to seek trade and companionship. 

Farther south from these independent city-states lies the 
recently freed nation of Vidrian. Originally established as 
the Chelish colony of Sargava, Vidrian has now seized its 
own destiny and cast off its colonial shackles. In so doing, 
the young nation has exposed itself to the predations 
of pirates and worse, yet to its citizens, freedom from 
oppression is well worth that price. 


ER cupS ROS c eR SS RR ERA 


j N Q 
> THE AGE OF LOST OMENS Ye 4 
5 SS — 
K 
5 
k 
OO 
THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


OLD CHELIAX 
———————— — Og ——————————— 


At its height, the empire of Cheliax had holdings that 
reached from Varisia to Garund and east all the way to 
Galt. Aroden was prophesized to return to the world 
of mortals to usher in a new Age of Glory, and those 
prophecies predicted the Chelish city of Westcrown 
would be the point of his arrival. Instead, his death 
ignited a civil war that lasted for decades. When the 
Thrice-Damned House of Thrune emerged as victor, 
Cheliax had forever changed. Under House Thrune's 
rule, Cheliax transformed into a nation that viewed Hell 
as a blueprint for government. The church of Asmodeus 
became Cheliax's official state religion, and diabolism 
its most powerful philosophy. The devil had come home 
to rule, and while the nation's politicians and leaders 
claimed that they maintained control of their fate—and 
House Thrune had merely formed an alliance with Hell to 
maintain its power and keep order—the nation's internal 
and external enemies know better. 

Many of Cheliax’s outlying provinces—such as 
Andoran, Galt, and Vidrian—revolted and became their 
own nations. The nation of Isger remains, at least on paper, 


a thrall. Cheliax values Isger for its important position as 
a trade route to the Lake Encarthan region, but when 
Isger was wracked by the violence of the Goblinblood 


Wars several decades ago, House Thrune did little to 
provide aid. As the repercussions of the Whispering 
Tyrant’s return to power send ripples of nervous dread 
through the land, Isger’s people grow fearful that they 
lack not only their own political strength but also that of 
their supposed protector, and as a result, Isger is one of 
the lands in the Inner Sea region most in need of heroes. 
Recently, several uprisings within Cheliax have further 
tested the nation’s resolve. After a devastating nautical 
loss in the Shackles resulted in Vidrian’s independence, a 
new Iomedaean rebellion called the Glorious Reclamation 
threatened Cheliax from within. House Thrune and the 
Asmodean church defeated the Glorious Reclamation, but 
at a price—a simultaneous rebellion was successful, with 
a group of rebels called the Silver Ravens negotiating the 
successful secession of the new nation of Ravounel. 
North of Cheliax, the shadowy nation of Nidal remains 
the diabolic nation’s only real ally. A theocracy ruled by 
the church of Zon-Kuthon, Nidal is the oldest nation on 
Avistan, for its people turned to the Midnight Lord for 
protection during the Age of Darkness after Earthfall. 
Today, pain and dread are comforts to the citizens of 
Nidal, and millennia of rule under a church that revels in 
pain have left them inured to agony and welcoming of loss. 


on 


ee, 


PATHFINDER cone RutEBOOK } 


SAGA LANDS 
ea, LEE eS 


While the opportunity for epic adventure exists throughout 
the world, in recent years it seems the Saga Lands have 
produced the most notorious and legendary tales. These 
sprawling northern reaches feature kingdoms ruled by 
vikings and witches, realms home to mammoth-riding 
Kellid clans, and a frontier land of free cities and 
dangerous wilderness—all of which are steeped in the 
ancient legacy of the long-gone empire of Thassilon. 

Millennia ago, the nation of Thassilon was ruled by 
the sinful, tyrannical runelords. These wizards carved 
out legends intended to last for an eternity, but even 
the mighty runelords succumbed to the devastation 
of Earthfall. The seven reigning runelords of that time 
retreated into the safety of extradimensional domains, 
and for eons they slumbered, until they began to wake 
in 4707 ar. 

The frontier realm of Varisia, once the heart of 
Thassilon, bore the brunt of the wrath of the first 
wakened runelord, an avaricious sadist named Karzoug. 
A band of unlikely heroes emerged from the small 
coastal town of Sandpoint to eventually face and 
defeat Karzoug, yet his wakening soon roused other 
slumbering runelords, and a new band of heroes was 
forced to defeat the risen tyrants. 


While the neighboring Lands of the Linnorm Kings, 
Realms of the Mammoth Lords, and witch-haunted 
Irrisen never faced direct repercussions from the 
runelords, these northern lands hold dangers of their 
own. A long-running cold war between the vikings 
of the Linnorm Kingdoms and the winter witches of 
Irrisen to the east finally came to a sputtering end when 
a daughter of the immortal witch Baba Yaga attempted 
to defy her mother and usurp Irrisen’s traditions of 
rule. While the eternal winter of Irrisen set in place by 
Baba Yaga endures, its new ruler, Anastasia, may prove 
to be the first benevolent presence to sit on the throne 
in centuries. Farther to the east, the Kellid clans of the 
Realm of the Mammoth Lords played their own pivotal 
roles in defying the demons of the Worldwound. 

Recently, a new nation has risen in the Saga Lands. 
After the runelords were defeated, two surviving 
runelords decided to adjust their traditions to fit this 
strange new world they found themselves in. Now the 
fledgling nation of New Thassilon sprawls along the 
northern border of Varisia, and it remains to be seen if 
its rulers will fully adopt a more peaceful path, or if it is 
but a matter of time before the old traditions of sin and 
violence rise once again. 


SHINING KINGDOMS 
MMs a. Oa SS C E 


The empire of Taldor was historically the heart of the 
Shining Kingdoms. In the early Age of Enthronement, 
Taldor sent several Armies of Exploration to expand 
the nation’s borders and colonize the surrounding lands. 
Today, Taldor is but a shadow of its former glory, but after 
a recent bout of internal strife, a progressive new empress 
has claimed the crown, and Taldor may be on the path to 
recover its old glory for the first time in centuries. 

To the west, the democratic nation of Andoran stands 
as a rising star on the international stage. Ever since the 
province seceded from the nation of Cheliax, Andoran’s 
military has helped to stem the flow of slavery, and its 
heroes have stood tall against all manner of peril to the 
common folk. But the future doesn’t look entirely bright 
for Andoran, for with Cheliax’s recent upsets, rumors 
flow that House Thrune may seek to reclaim control 
of its wayward thrall. Given the looming threat of the 
Whispering Tyrant, an all-out war between these two 
powerful nations could be disastrous. 

Northeast of Andoran sprawls the dwarven city-states 
of the Five Kings Mountains. No strangers to war, both 
against enemies and among themselves, the dwarves of the 
Five Kings remain allies of Andoran but have their own 
troubles that command most of their attention. To the 


west of the dwarven realm, the rich and powerful nation 
of Druma controls nearly half of the lake’s southern 
shoreline and uses its position to bolster its coffers and 
further the teachings of the Prophecies of Kalistrade, 
a philosophy that teaches that wealth can be achieved 
through adherence to strict and abstemious practices. 

Northeast of Druma lie the forested elven lands 
of Kyonin, one of Avistan’s oldest nations. This land 
belonged to the elves long before Earthfall, but for 
thousands of years after that devastation, they left their 
realm abandoned. In that time, a powerful demon named 
Treerazer seized control of the forest’s southern reaches, 
corrupting the terrain into a swampy, desolate mire called 
Tanglebriar. Although the elves have returned, they’ve 
been unable to force Treerazer from their southern border. 

Still farther east is the nation of Galt. Wracked for 
decades by a self-perpetuating series of rebellions and 
revolutions, this land has been torn apart from within 
over and over. Its people are tired and desperate as they 
continue to live what lives they can in the shadow of the 
final blades—powerful magical guillotines that claim the 
souls of those they decapitate. If any of the regions of the 
Shining Kingdoms is poised for significant change in the 
near future, it is surely revolution-wracked Galt. 


i, 
"M THE AGE OF 


| 
| 


l EQUIPMENT 


T 


‘SPELLS 


Lx. 


| LOST OMENS 


(CO 


PLAYING THE 


GAME 


PO nage 
JATHFINDE 


CULTURES 


Of course, there's more to the world of Golarion than its geopolitical borders and wilderness 
regions. It's the people who dwell in those nations and the creatures that lurk in those wilds 
who bring the world to life. 


$$ pE 


KELLID 


( oN 


DA 


HUMAN ETHNICITIES 


A variety of ethnic groups make up the human populace of the continents bordering 
Golarion’s Inner Sea. Many of these groups have origins on distant lands, but the Inner 
Sea region has a diverse population drawn from across the globe. Human characters can 
be from any of these ethnicities, regardless of what land they call home. 

Characters from these ethnicities speak Common if they come from the Inner Sea 
region, and some ethnicities give access to a regional language or another uncommon 
language (page 65). Half-elves and half-orcs arise across all human ethnicities and bear 
the features of both those ethnicities and their non-human parents. 


GARUNDI 

Garundi span the nations of northern Garund along the shores of the Inner Sea, 
and their clans are known for strength and empathy, treating their neighbors with 
compassion and respect. Their skin tones often range from dark brown to beige, and 
they often have tall statures, broad shoulders, and high cheekbones. Garundi have 
access to the Osiriani language. 


KELESHITE 

Tracing their origins to the Keleshite Empire in the eastern deserts, Keleshites often 
have black hair, brown eyes, and dark- to cool-brown skin. Their culture takes pride 
in the empire’s legacy, valuing boldness, wit, and luxury. Fashions tend to incorporate 
flowing fabrics, headdresses, and turbans. Keleshites have access to the Kelish language. 


KELLID 

In the mountains and steppes of northern Avistan, Kellids live hard lives to survive the 
threats of the wild, wary of magic and relying on skill and might when hunting and 
fighting. They are typically a brawny and dark-haired people, tanned and bearing eyes 
that are often black, blue, or gray. Kellids have access to the Hallit language. 


MwaNGI 

Spread across the vast continent of Garund, from the parched deserts in the north 
to the dense jungles of the Mwangi Expanse, the Mwangi people are divided into 
four diverse subgroups: Bekyar, Bonuwat, Mauxi, and Zenj. Mwangi skin tones 
range from black to dark-brown to ocher, and they have black or dark-brown hair. 
Mwangi have access to the Mwangi language. 


NIDALESE 

Nidalese hail from a culture that escaped destruction during the Earthfall, when a 
swarm of meteoroids carved out the Inner Sea. The ancient Nidalese pledged fealty to 
an evil shadow god to obtain salvation, and the grip of Zon-Kuthon has tainted these 
people ever since. Nidalese tend toward gray, ashy skin tones, with white, gray, or 
black hair. Nidalese have access to the Shadowtongue language. 


SHOANTI 

The Shoanti clans called quahs were long ago pushed out of lush territory in the nation 
of Varisia into the harsh badlands of the Storval Plateau. Stalwart and tenacious, they 
remain oath-sworn to someday retake what they’ve lost. Their skin tones typically 
range from sepia to russet, and quah members are easily identified by their shaved 
heads and traditional tattoos. Shoanti have access to the Shoanti language. 


TALDAN 

Renowned as artisans, scholars, and soldiers, Taldans have spread throughout Avistan, 
as the empire of Taldor once spanned almost half of the northern continent. Taldans 
often have brown hair, pale-white to deep-bronze skin, and green, gray, or amber eyes. 
Their native language, Taldane, is so widespread that it is also called Common. 


TIAN 

Few in number in the Inner Sea region, Tians originally come from myriad nations 
in Tian Xia, a continent on the opposite side of the world. They typically have dark 
hair, but their body types, skin tones, and eye colors vary greatly, as “Tian” is in fact 
a general term describing several ethnicities. Tians have access to the Tien language. 


ULFEN 

The coastal raiders of the Ulfen clans are skilled sailors and bodyguards. They’re 
often tall, with pale to ruddy skin and blond, light-brown, or red hair. They typically 
show pride in their appearances by adorning themselves with furs, horn, and ivory. 
Ulfen have access to the Skald language. 


VARISIAN 

Varisians historically favored a nomadic life of roving caravans, but today many lead 
a settled lifestyle in places like Ustalav and their namesake land. Their skin tones 
typically range from tawny beige to khaki. They have a wide variety of hair colors 
from platinum to red to brown, and their large, expressive eyes range into even rarer 
colors like violet and gold. Varisians have access to the Varisian language. 


VunRANI 

Though the empire of Vudra is far to the east, it has a foothold in the Inner Sea on 
the island of Jalmeray. A widespread belief in reincarnation makes dedication to 
self-improvement a hallmark of Vudrani culture. Vudrani typically have dark eyes 
and skin tones that run from umber to tawny. Their hair is often black and ranges 
in thickness and texture. Piercings, jewelry, and makeup are common adornments 
among Vudrani. Vudrani have access to the Vudrani language. 


DWARVES 


For untold eons, the dwarven people dwelled in the lightless reaches of the Darklands. 
It wasn’t until after Earthfall that the dwarves undertook the legendary Quest for 
Sky, during which the majority of dwarves made a pilgrimage to relocate to the 
surface of Golarion. In doing so, they not only drove the orcs to the surface before 
them, but also established several immense Sky Citadels at each location where 
they emerged from the realm below. Today, three major ethnicities of dwarves exist, 
each associated with one of three altitude bands: the Grondaksen dwarves (who 
still dwell in the upper reaches of the Darklands), the Ergaksen dwarves (the most 
widespread heritage, and those who dwell on or adjacent to the surface world), and 
the Holtaksen dwarves (the least populous—dwarves who dwell only among the 
highest mountain reaches). 


ELVES 


Golarion is not the original elven home world, but those elves who dwell here 
today are considered native to the planet. These people first came to Golarion from 
the neighboring planet of Castrovel via a network of portals known as aiudara. 
While elves abandoned Golarion for several thousand years after the devastation of 
Earthfall, they have since returned in force. The most populous elves are the Aiudeen, 
elves who have acclimated to temperate forest lands. These are the elves who rule 
the nation of Kyonin and are most often encountered in other societies. To the south, 
the Mualijae elves have acclimated to the sweltering jungles of the Mwangi Expanse, 
while far to the north the Ilverani elves (known to some as the snowcasters) dwell in 


OQ 


| THE AGE OF 


| LOST OMENS 


(CO 


~ PLAYING THE 
= GAME 


al 


the frozen reaches of Irrisen and beyond in the Crown of the World. The Vourinoi 
elves of Garund’s deserts are the most secretive of the elven ethnicities. 


GNOMES 


The first gnomes arrived on Golarion at some point after Earthfall from the 
otherworldly dimension known as the First World, fleeing a terror whose nature 
few can recall. Since that time, gnomes have transitioned fully to creatures of the 
Material Plane, although they all live in fear of the life-threatening condition known 
as Bleaching. Feychild gnomes are the most widespread. Glimmer gnomes retain a 
stronger tie to the First World, while others known as fell gnomes have embraced 
the darker traditions of their fey heritage. Keenspark gnomes (jokingly referred to 
as “sour gnomes”) seek to avoid the Bleaching by exploring new innovations rather 
than seeking new experiences or exploring the world. 


GOBLINS 


Although many adventurers might assume a goblin is a goblin, these scrappy and 
creative people are as diverse as any other ancestry. The most widespread are the rasp 
goblins, so named for the large numbers who have traditionally dwelled along the 
rugged coastlines of Varisia’s west coast, a region known as the Rasp. Forest goblins 
tend to be smaller than the other ethnicities and are located mostly in central Avistan. 
Their numbers are only now beginning to recover from the horrors of the Goblinblood 
Wars. The frost goblins of Irrisen’s eternal winter are unusual among their kind for their 
propensity to grow blue fur on their bodies, while the monkey goblins of Mediogalti 
Island are known for their prehensile tails and arboreal habitats. 


HALFLINGS 


Many halflings have lived in the shadow of other societies for as long as they can 
remember, living in much the same way as their neighboring cultures and adding 
their own unique variations over time or as necessity demands. However, numerous 
distinct halfling cultures exist outside of the context of other peoples and nations. 
In some cases, these divisions were fueled by separation and circumstances, such as 
the oppressed halflings of Cheliax who have been forced into slavery, and the Song'o 
halflings of the Mwangi Expanse, who hid from all other cultures to avoid a similar 
fate. Other halflings, such as the Jaric, Mihrini, Othoban, and Uhlam halflings, simply 
formed their own traditions without the influence of humans and other creatures. 


REGIONAL LANGUAGES 

These languages are uncommon outside the region of their genesis. A character hailing 
from one of the regions listed below automatically has access to that language. In the 
Inner Sea region, the language referred to as Common elsewhere in the rules is the same 
as Taldane—a result of Taldor's legacy of control and influence over the whole region. 
Nearly every language listed here is spoken on the melting-pot streets of Absalom. 


TABLE 8-1: REGIONAL LANGUAGES 

Hallit Irrisen, Mendev, Numeria, Realm of the Mammoth Lords, Sarkoris, Ustalav 
Kelish Katapesh, Kelesh, Osirion, Qadira 

Mwangi Mwangi Expanse, the Shackles, Thuvia, Vidrian 

Osiriani Geb, Katapesh, Mana Wastes, Nex, Osirion, Rahadoum, Thuvia 

Shoanti Hold of Belkzen, Varisia 

Skald Irrisen, Lands of the Linnorm Kings 

Tien Lands of the Linnorm Kings, Realm of the Mammoth Lords, Tian Xia 
Varisian  Brevoy, the Gravelands, Nidal, Nirmathas, Ustalav, Varisia 

Vudrani — Jalmeray, Katapesh, Nex, Vudra 


THE AGE OF LOST OMENS 


"v AL 


INTRODUCTION 


CREATURES 


The six humanoid ancestries are far from Golarion's only inhabitants. Many other 


creatures dwell in the world, some kindly and others cruel, some wild and others | ANCESTRIES & 
organized, some anthropomorphic and others completely monstrous. Even creatures BACKGROUNDS 
that are usually foes of civilization, and whom brave adventurers face in battle, can CLASSES 
sometimes be reasoned with or even befriended. Not all of them are evil, and some are 
actively helpful to their neighbors. And some, of course, simply want to be left alone. SKILLS 

C 2 FEATS 
Listed on these pages are brief descriptions of many than their evil kin, but only because they have less of an. | 
creatures that have held important cultural, regional, urge to mingle with humanoids. i EQUIPMENT 
or historical roles on Golarion, particularly in the Inner E 
Sea region. BENIES SPELLS 


ALGHOLLTHUS 


Perhaps the oldest intelligent creatures on Golarion, 
the alghollthus ruled vast empires in the depths of the 
world’s oceans for eons before the first humans came 


The nation of Qadira has a long history with genies, 
but geniekind’s involvement with the Inner Sea region 
is certainly not limited to that nation. They serve as 
architects and creators of impossibilities on the isle of 
Jalmeray, and in Katapesh they are rumored to be infused 


oe 


— 


LA. 


THE AGE DF 


LOST OMENS 


to be. In fact, according to some of their wall carvings, into the very stone and soil of the land. f PLAYING THE 
they created the first human beings. Whether or not this | GAME 
claim is true is impossible to prove, but these creatures— GIANTS 

from the sinister aboleths to their shape-changing Countless tribes and varieties of these GAME 
rulers, the veiled masters—have certainly been a part of massive humanoids rule the rugged 1 MASTERING 
the world for a long, long time. Moreover, their claim reaches of the world, from volcanic 

to have existed on Golarion before the gods themselves mountain ranges and stinking CRAFTING 
turned their divine eyes upon the world carries some marshlands to trackless badlands S TREASURE 


disturbing implications. 


DEMONS 


Normally bound to the Abyss, demons can be 
found wherever cults or evil spellcasters exist 
to call them to this world. Two notable locations, 
the Worldwound in the north and the Tanglebriar in 
southern Kyonin, deserve special mention, for here the 
demons of the Abyss have established lasting presences. 


DEVILS 


Although the rulers of Cheliax maintain that Hell is but a 
blueprint and devilkind is just a tool the clever spellcasters 
of House Thrune use to maintain control over their 
nation (as well as their decadent lifestyle), devils have 
an insidious hold over that nation. With the state 
formally devoted to Asmodeus and powerful orders 
of Hellknights serving as mercenary arbiters of law, it 
should come as no surprise that devils are unusually 
common in Cheliax and the neighboring realms. 


DRAGONS 


Dragons are rightfully counted among the 
most legendary of monsters in the Inner Sea 
region. Most prefer to dwell in remote lairs, 
swooping down to interact with humanity 
only when their violent tempers push them 
to raid. Good dragons may seem less common 


APPENDIX 


and steaming jungles. They were used as slaves in ancient 
Thassilon, where they were ruled by magic-infused rune 
giants and forced to erect enormous monuments that 
remain to this day in Varisia, Belkzen, and the Lands of 
the Linnorm Kings. But now the giant tribes of northern 
Avistan are scattered across the land, largely unaware 
they once had a society that was destroyed and reshaped 
by the ancient empire of Thassilon. 


GNOLLS 


Hyena-headed gnolls, ever seeking new slaves to perform 
menial labor, make for unreliable mercenaries but excel at 
hunting intelligent prey. Gnolls dwell primarily in northern 
Garund and are particularly common in Osirion, Katapesh, 
and Nex. Indeed, gnolls can be found operating openly as 
bodyguards, mercenaries, and slavers in cities like Katapesh. 


GOBLINOIDS 


Goblins are certainly the most widespread and recognized 
goblinoids, but their taller, more militaristic hobgoblin 
kin rule the new kingdom of Oprak near Lake Encarthan. 
The looming, murderous creatures known as bugbears 
remain loners who eschew social structures, preferring to 
pursue their sadistic hobbies on their own. 


KOBOLDS 


Industrious and fecund, kobolds thrive anywhere they 
can, often dwelling in narrow confines and twisting 
burrows in the hinterlands of rural regions or spreading 
throughout the sewers of urban centers. These small, 
reptilian humanoids share many traits with dragons— 
but courage, might, and an intimidating presence are 
certainly not among them! 


LESHYS 


The first leshys were grown by druids as minions, but over 
time these strange, plantlike creatures have diversified 
and now take many forms. Leshys have yet to organize or 
form nations of their own, but considering how quickly 
their numbers have grown and how swiftly they adapt to 
new regions, a leshy nation seems all but guaranteed in 
the near future. 


LIZARDFOLK 


Once widespread in Avistan and Garund, the isolationist 
lizardfolk, also known as iruxis, have been forced farther 
and farther into their forests and swamps by climate 
change and the rapid expansion of other humanoids. 
Normally peaceful, lizardfolk can be driven to war by 
encroaching civilization and power-hungry lizardfolk 
leaders—the latter are disturbingly common in the 
Mwangi Expanse and the River Kingdoms. 


ORCS 


Most orcs currently regard the Hold of Belkzen as their 
ancestral land, despite the fact that they once called the 
upper reaches of the Darklands home. After living in a 
violent and brutal culture built on conquest and strength, 
some orcs of the Hold of Belkzen have begun to consider 
other means of securing 
their lands. 


PLANAR SCIONS 


A wide variety of planar scions 
dwell in the Inner Sea region, including 
the descendants of celestials and fiends who 
have mixed their bloodlines with those of mortals, 
and other lineages that arose from the influence of the 
Elemental Planes. In Cheliax, those who exhibit diabolic 
influences are particularly despised, as the leaders of that 
nation see them as examples of mortals who succumbed 
to fiendish influence instead of commanding devils as 
minions and slaves. 


SERPENTFOLK 


Serpentfolk once ruled the second layer of the Darklands 
along with much of the surface of Garund and Avistan. 
Azlant’s expansion into the Inner Sea region long before 
Earthfall led to a terrible war between the two peoples. 
When Azlant proved the victor, the surviving serpentfolk 
fled into the Darklands; they are nearly extinct today. 


FACTIONS 


While nations and faiths command vast resources and control entire regions, they must still 
compete for the loyalty of their followers. In addition to being swayed by church and state, 
many people are influenced by societal groups known as factions. These groups vary wildly 
in size and purpose—from local thieves’ guilds interested only in filling the pockets and 
bellies of their members, to far-reaching, international commercial conglomerates with their 


own private armies. 


The largest factions compete with lesser sovereign nations 
for wealth, power, and influence, and they sometimes 
rival even larger nations. In some cases, nations take 
the risky step of relying upon these powerful factions, 
making them an extension of government itself (as is the 
case with some Hellknights in Cheliax, for example). In 
other cases, such as that of the Red Mantis, entire nations 
bow to the power of these organizations. Smaller groups, 
while less rich in resources, nonetheless inspire great zeal 
in their members. Those groups that strive to grow in size, 
influence, or wealth frequently attract more dedicated 
and motivated members. 

The factions summarized below represent a sampling 
of those active in the Inner Sea region. Some, like the 
Pathfinder Society and the Aspis Consortium, are 
widespread and powerful; their influence can be found 
throughout the world. Others, such as the Firebrands 
and the Sczarni, are disorganized or regional in scope. 
All encourage adventurers to join their ranks, although 
the benefits each faction can offer an adventurer 
varies widely. 


ASPIS CONSORTIUM 


The sprawling mercantile concern known 
as the Aspis Consortium is structured to 


ensure that the survival of the faction is 
more important than any single member. Originally 
founded as a private trading endeavor, the Consortium 
has grown to be one of the largest business ventures in the 
Inner Sea region. Most of the group’s members are skilled 
merchants and mercenaries, and the organization has 
made a merciless and bloodthirsty name for itself when it 
comes to ensuring its profits. The Aspis Consortium has 
clashed many times with the Pathfinder Society. 


BELLFLOWER NETWORK 


The unsavory practice of slavery continues 
to be a strong economic force in diabolic 
Cheliax. Here, halflings are particularly 
valued as slaves, for they work hard and take up only 
half the room of a human laborer. It should come as no 
surprise, then, to learn of the Bellflower Network, an 
organization founded by halfling freedom fighters that 
accepts any into its ranks, provided they aid the network 


in its goal of freeing all slaves from servitude and helping 
them escape from oppressive lands like Cheliax. 


) ESOTERIC ORDER OF THE 
PALATINE EYE 


Based in the nation of Ustalav, the 


scholars and philosophers of this 
semisecret society have long stood 
against the Whispering Way (page 441), but more recent 
events have placed them in opposition to the sinister goals 
of the Night Heralds. When left to their own devices, 
however, members of this faction prefer to explore and 
study dusty secrets hidden in the past, particularly those 
still awaiting rediscovery in the regions of the Golden 
Road—especially in the nation of Osirion. 


EAGLE KNIGHTS 


The Eagle Knights are the protectors and 
defenders of the people of Andoran. The 
group itself consists of four subfactions— 


the Steel Falcons (who protect Andoran’s 
interests beyond its borders), the Golden Legion 
(Andoran’s defenders and the commanders of its armies), 
the Gray Corsairs (nautical agents who specialize in 
fighting the slave trade), and the Twilight Talons (spies 
and deep cover agents). 


FIREBRANDS 


. Not all factions have central bases of 


operation or organized hierarchies of 
command. The loosely affiliated freedom 
fighters, 
entertainers known as the Firebrands are one such group. 


swashbuckling heroes, and 


They are united by a desire to fight oppression, oppose 
tyrannical regimes, free slaves, rescue the wrongfully 
accused, and engage in jolly cooperation with like-minded 
their 
reputations and wealth. This group of defenders has 


heroes—all while building own individual 
proven surprisingly difficult for oppressive governments 


and cruel religions to defeat. 


FREE CAPTAINS 


To an outside observer or a merchant 
whose ship has been looted or sunk, the 


pirates of the Shackles may seem like 


9.0 


|THE AGE OF 
| LOST OMENS 
(Ol 
PLAYING THE 
2 GAME 


a disorganized scourge. But in truth, these pirates are 
bound by a complex code of, if not honor, then a mutual 
recognition that it’s always good to have allies on the 
open seas. The Shackles are ruled by a council of pirate 
lords who call themselves the Free Captains; they sail 
the southern Arcadian Ocean and follow their own code 
of rules when it comes to who can be raided and what 
can be sunk—even if, to their victims, those rules seem 
capricious and arbitrary. 


HELLKNIGHTS 


Several different orders of the mercenaries 
known collectively as Hellknights operate 


in Avistan, with most of their number 
stationed in the nation of Cheliax. These mercenaries see 
the law of the land as inviolate and offer their services 
as enforcers to any who can pay their prices. They wear 
distinctive suits of intimidating armor and take the 
legends of Hell as inspiration, but they see no one but 
themselves as the true arbiters of law. 


KNIGHTS OF LASTWALL 


For centuries, the nation of Lastwall stood 
as a bulwark against the orcs of Belkzen 


and the lingering threat of the Whispering 
Tyrant. But when the Whispering Tyrant escaped 
his prison, he brought to his enemies in Lastwall a 
devastating apocalypse. Now Lastwall is destroyed, 
and the knights who once served there are without a 
home. In its absence, they have formed a ragtag group 
known as the Knights of Lastwall, and they carry on 
their charge to stand against the undead legions of the 
Whispering Tyrant wherever their skills are needed. 


LION BLADES 


The Lion Blades of Taldor are a secret 
organization committed to protecting the 


interests of Taldor and its ruler. They oppose 
Taldor’s many enemies, foreign and domestic, through 
a program of infiltration, espionage, and assassination. 
One of the major goals of the Lion Blades is to rein in 
corruption within the empire (aside from corruption that 
is useful to them); another is keeping any one faction of 
the imperial court from becoming powerful enough to 
upset the status quo. Through its shadow schools, the 
Lion Blades intensively train new recruits before investing 


them with a high degree of initiative and latitude. 


N TL 


MAGAAMBYA 


Golarion reeled from the disaster of 


7 Earthfall, and its peoples took long to 
ole 


of the first institutions to rise from the ashes of near 


recover. But recover they did, and one 


destruction was the Magaambya, an academy of arcane 
learning founded by the legendary wizard known as Old- 
Mage Jatembe. Today, the scholars of Magaambya not 


only preserve ancient magical traditions founded in those 
early days but also protect the learning and culture of the 
Mwangi people as a whole. 


NIGHT HERALDS 

The Night Heralds turn to the lure of the 

starlit night for guidance, seeking advice 

and aid from forces far removed from 
Golarion. The sinister aliens of the Dominion of the 
Black hold special importance for the Night Heralds, 
and many Night Heralds worship these inscrutable 
beings almost as gods. Night Heralds seek and collect 
obscure texts and mysterious lore from the ancient past 
and peruse the secrets they find within to unravel larger 
hidden meanings and obscured truths beyond reality. 
Their hope is that when the world inevitably falls to 
alien influence, they will be rewarded for their service by 
the world’s new masters. 


PATHFINDER SOCIETY 


Many of the greatest explorers and 
adventurers of the modern age have 


recorded their discoveries in an ongoing 
series of chapbooks known as the Pathfinder Chronicles, 
published irregularly by the Pathfinder Society itself. 
This diverse group is devoted to exploring the world, 
supporting its agents in the field, and ensuring the 
discoveries they make are documented. The Society 
often finds itself in conflict with the more mercenary 
Aspis Consortium. The Pathfinder Society’s pursuit of 
discovery often puts its agents in the thick of developing 
plots, forcing them to choose between being heroes or 
villains as events unfold. 


RED MANTIS 


It’s easy to know if an assassination is the 

work of the notorious Red Mantis; they 

typically kill with a sacred sawtooth saber, 
have a knack for targeting their victims in public or in 
sanctuaries believed to be safe, and take steps to ensure 
that those they are contracted to kill stay dead. Their 
prices change with each mission, but no matter the offer, 
the Red Mantis never targets rightfully ruling monarchs, 
for their own deity, the mantis god Achaekek, forbids 
the murder of those with a divine mandate to rule. 


SCZARNI 


The Sczarni are a collection of Varisian 
bandits, smugglers, and thieves. They are 


organized into tightly knit families, each 
of which has little or nothing in common with Sczarni 
in other locations beyond shared skills, techniques, and 
pursuits. Their crimes focus on thievery, scams, and other 
relatively nonviolent acts, but since these crimes have 
a tendency to spiral out of control, their schemes often 
result in violence anyway. 


RELIGION 


Selection of a deity is critical for certain classes—like champion and cleric—but most 
characters pay respect to at least one deity to find a focus in life and guide their choices, 
especially in times of hardship or need. Some people instead worship a group of deities 
arranged in a pantheon, follow a nondeific religion like the Green Faith, or adhere to a 
specific philosophy. Note that far more deities, religions, and philosophies exist on any 
world, Golarion included, than those detailed below. 


DEITIES 

Anyone can worship a deity, but those who do so devoutly 
should take care to pursue the faith’s edicts (behaviors 
the faith encourages) and avoid its anathemas (actions 
considered blasphemous). Each deity below has their 
alignment listed in parentheses after their name, followed 
by a short description and their edicts, anathemas, and 
the alignments permitted for followers. Following that are 
benefits available to the most ardent devotees of the deities. 
You get these benefits only if you’re a cleric of the deity 
or some other rule specifically gives you a devotee benefit. 


ABADAR [LN] 


The Master of the First Vault holds sway over cities, 
the law, merchants, and wealth. Abadar seeks to 
bring civilization to the wild places of the world, 
encourages adherence to law, and promotes commerce and 
trade within civilization. He also encourages cooperation 
among the various ancestries. 
Edicts bring civilization to the frontiers, earn wealth through 
hard work and trade, follow the rule of law 
Anathema engage in banditry or piracy, steal, undermine a 
law-abiding court 
Follower Alignments LG, LN, LE 


Devotee BeNerirs 

Divine Font harm or heal 

Divine Skill Society 

Favored Weapon crossbow 

Domains cities, earth, travel, wealth 

Cleric Spells 1st: illusory object, 4th: creation, 7th: magnificent 
mansion 


ASMODEUS [LE] 


The Prince of Darkness reigns over contracts, 
pride, slavery, and tyranny, and he delights 
in tempting mortals to the path of evil. He 
promotes strict hierarchies where everyone knows their place, 
and he takes advantage of order for his own selfish benefit. 
Edicts negotiate contracts to your best advantage, rule 
tyrannically and torture weaker beings, show subservience 
to your betters 
Anathema break a contract, free a slave, insult Asmodeus by 
showing mercy to your enemies 
Follower Alignments LE 


Devotee BeNeFits 

Divine Font harm 

Divine Skill Deception 

Favored Weapon mace 

Domains confidence, fire, trickery, tyranny 

Cleric Spells 1st: charm, 4th: suggestion, 6th: mislead 


NEW oc. 

] THE AGE OF 

| LOST OMENS 

x 7 CALISTRIA [CN] 00099 
The mischievous goddess known as the i PLAYING THE 
Savored Sting extols the virtues of lust, £^ BAME 


revenge, and trickery. Though Calistria is y 


-GAME 


most widely worshipped by elves, members 
of many other ancestries follow her as well. 
Edicts pursue your personal freedom, seek hedonistic thrills, 
take revenge 
Anathema become too consumed by love or a need for 
revenge, let a slight go unanswered 
Follower Alignments CG, CN, CE 


B TREASURE 


Devotee BeNerirs 

Divine Font harm or heal 

Divine Skill Deception 

Favored Weapon whip 

Domains pain, passion, secrecy, trickery 

Cleric Spells 1st: charm, 3rd: enthrall, 6th: mislead 


4 CAYDEN CAILEAN [C] 


E The Drunken Hero ascended from mortal life 

on a drunken dare, becoming the god of ale, 
freedom, and wine. Cayden promotes freedom 

and encourages others to find their own path in life. He fights 

for just causes and delights in the best indulgences. 

Edicts drink, free slaves and aid the oppressed, seek glory 
and adventure 

Anathema waste alcohol, be mean or standoffish when drunk, 
own a slave 

Follower Alignments NG, CG, CN 


Devotee BENEFITS 

Divine Font heal 

Divine Skill Athletics 

Favored Weapon rapier 

Domains cities, freedom, indulgence, might 

Cleric Spells 1st: fleet step, 2nd: touch of idiocy, 5th: hallucination 


-— wee pter Ea 


"j 
m 
2 

ir 
m 
[-] 
ro) 
z 


DESNA [C6] 


The kindly Song of the Spheres presides over 

dreams, luck, stars, and travelers. An ancient 
goddess, Desna delights in freedom and mystery, and she 
encourages her followers to do the same. 

Edicts aid fellow travelers, explore new places, express 
yourself through art and song, find what life has to offer 
Anathema cause fear or despair, cast nightmare or use similar 

magic to corrupt dreams, engage in bigoted behavior 
Follower Alignments NG, CG, CN 


Devotee BEneFITS 

Divine Font heal 

Divine Skill Acrobatics 

Favored Weapon starknife 

Domains dreams, luck, moon, travel 

Cleric Spells 1st: sleep, 4th: fly, 5th: dreaming potential 


ERASTIL [LG] 


P Old Deadeye is god of family, farming, 
hunting, and trade. Long ago he was a horned 
god of the hunt, but his worship evolved to 

focus on rural communities. 

Edicts care for your home and family, fulfill your duties, keep 

the peace, protect the community 

Anathema abandon your home in its time of need, choose 

yourself over your community, tarnish your reputation, 
tell lies 

Follower Alignments LG, NG, LN 


Y 


Devotee BENEFITS 

Divine Font heal 

Divine Skill Survival 

Favored Weapon longbow 

Domains earth, family, nature, wealth 

Cleric Spells 1st: true strike, 3rd: wall of thorns, 5th: tree stride 


GORUM [CN] 


Soldiers call out prayers to Our Lord in 

Iron, god of battle, strength, and weapons. 

Gorum emphasizes strength and power, encouraging his 

followers to seek out war and combat as the ultimate way 

to worship him. 

Edicts attain victory in fair combat, push your limits, wear 
armor in combat 

Anathema kill prisoners or surrendering foes, prevent conflict 
through negotiation, win a battle through underhanded 
tactics or indirect magic 

Follower Alignments CN, CE 


Devotee BeNnerirs 

Divine Font harm or heal 

Divine Skill Athletics 

Favored Weapon greatsword 

Domains confidence, destruction, might, zeal 

Cleric Spells 1st: true strike, 2nd: enlarge, 4th: weapon storm 


GOZREH [N] 

A deity of two aspects, known as the Wind 

and the Waves, Gozreh rules over nature, 
i the sea, and weather. Gozreh is popular with 

druids and those who seek to preserve the wilds. 

Edicts cherish, protect, and respect nature in all its forms 

Anathema bring civilization to intrude on the wild, create 

undead, despoil areas of natural beauty 
Follower Alignments NG, LN, N, CN, NE 


Devotee BeNeFits 

Divine Font heal 

Divine Skill Survival 

Favored Weapon trident 

Domains air, nature, travel, water 

Cleric Spells 1st: gust of wind, 3rd: lightning bolt, 5th: control 
water 


IOMEDAE (LG) 
lomedae is goddess of honor, justice, rulership, and 


valor, and she is called the Inheritor because she 
inherited her mantle when the god of humanity 
perished. Prior to her ascension, lomedae walked 
the planet as a mortal. Many paladins follow her faith. 
Edicts be temperate, fight for justice and honor, hold valor in 
your heart 
Anathema abandon a companion in need, dishonor yourself, 
refuse a challenge from an equal 
Follower Alignments LG, NG 


Devotee BeNeFiTs 

Divine Font heal 

Divine Skill Intimidation 

Favored Weapon longsword 

Domains confidence, might, truth, zeal 

Cleric Spells 1st: true strike, 2nd: enlarge, Ath: fire shield 


IRORI [LN] 

When the Master of Masters attained true 

enlightenment, he became a god of history, 
knowledge, and self-perfection. Irori promotes discipline and 
teaches that one who can master themself finds the greatest 
benefits the world can provide. 

Edicts be humble; help others perfect themselves; hone 
your body, mind, and spirit to a more perfect state; 
practice discipline 

Anathema become addicted to a substance, destroy an important 
historical text, repeatedly fail to maintain self-control 

Follower Alignments LG, LN, LE 


Devotee BeNeriTS 

Divine Font harm or heal 

Divine Skill Athletics 

Favored Weapon fist 

Domains knowledge, might, perfection, truth 
Cleric Spells 1st: jump, 3rd: haste, Ath: stoneskin 


LAMASHTU [CE] 


The Mother of Monsters is goddess of 
aberrance, monsters, and nightmares. She 
seeks to corrupt mortals and populate the 
world with her twisted and monstrous brood. 
Edicts bring power to outcasts and the downtrodden, indoctrinate 
children in Lamashtu’s teachings, make the beautiful 
monstrous, reveal the corruption and flaws in all things 
Anathema attempt to treat a mental illness or deformity, 
provide succor to Lamashtu's enemies 
Follower Alignments CE 


Devotee BeneriTS 

Divine Font harm or heal 

Divine Skill Survival 

Favored Weapon falchion 

Domains family, might, nightmares, trickery 

Cleric Spells 1st: magic fang, 2nd: animal form, 4th: nightmare 


NETHYS [N] 


The All-Seeing Eye, god of magic, has a dualistic 
nature of destruction and preservation; his ability 
to witness all things has shattered his mind. 
Edicts seek out magical power and use it 
Anathema pursue mundane paths over magical ones 
Follower Alignments NG, LN, N, CN, NE 


Devotee BeNeFirs 

Divine Font harm or heal 

Divine Skill Arcana 

Favored Weapon staff 

Domains destruction, knowledge, magic, protection 

Cleric Spells 1st: magic missile, 2nd: magic mouth, 3rd: levitate, 
Ath: blink, 5th: prying eye, 6th: wall of force, 7th: warp mind, 
8th: maze, 9th: disjunction 


NORGORBER [NE] 


The god of greed, murder, poison, and 
secrets has four aspects: Blackfingers, ally 
of alchemists and poisoners; the murderous 
Father Skinsaw; the thieving Gray Master; and the secretive 
Reaper of Reputation. 
Edicts keep your true identity secret, sacrifice anyone necessary, 
take every advantage in a fight, work from the shadows 
Anathema allow your true identity to be connected to your 
dark dealings, share a secret freely, show mercy 
Follower Alignments LE, NE, CE, plus N if following the Reaper 
of Reputation 


Devotee BeNeriTS 

Divine Font harm 

Divine Skill Stealth 

Favored Weapon shortsword 

Domains death, secrecy, trickery, wealth 

Cleric Spells ist: illusory disguise, 2nd: invisibility, Ath: 
phantasmal killer 


PHARASMA [N] 


Ancient and powerful beyond even most other 

gods, the Lady of Graves presides over birth, 

death, fate, and prophecy. From her throne in 

the Boneyard, she judges the souls of all who perish, and she 

ensures that the natural cycle of birth and death—the River of 

Souls—is not disrupted. 

Edicts strive to understand ancient prophecies, destroy 
undead, lay bodies to rest 

Anathema create undead, desecrate a corpse, rob a tomb 

Follower Alignments NG, LN, N 


Devotee BeNeFits 

Divine Font heal 

Divine Skill Medicine 

Favored Weapon dagger 

Domains death, fate, healing, knowledge 

Cleric Spells 1st: mindlink, 3rd: ghostly weapon, Ath: 
phantasmal killer 


ROVAGUG [CE] 
The Rough Beast is the god of destruction, 
disaster, and wrath. He was long ago 
imprisoned within Golarion's core at the hands 
of many other deities working in concert, and seeks to one day 
break free and wreak havoc upon the world. 
Edicts destroy all things, free Rovagug from his prison 
Anathema create something new, let material ties restrain 
you, torture a victim or otherwise delay its destruction 
Follower Alignments NE, CE 


Devotee BeNeFits 

Divine Font harm 

Divine Skill Athletics 

Favored Weapon greataxe 

Domains air, destruction, earth, zeal 

Cleric Spells 1st: burning hands, 2nd: enlarge, 6th: disintegrate 


SARENRAE [NG] 

O The Dawnflower is goddess of healing, honesty, 
Pay ^ redemption, and the sun. Once a powerful angel 
\] and empyreal lord, Sarenrae led the charge to 
E imprison Rovagug. She seeks to redeem evil where 

possible, or else destroy it swiftly. 
Edicts destroy the Spawn of Rovagug, protect allies, provide 

aid to the sick and wounded, seek and allow redemption 

Anathema create undead, lie, deny a repentant creature an 


opportunity for redemption, fail to strike down evil 
Follower Alignments LG, NG, CG 


Devotee BeneriTS 

Divine Font heal 

Divine Skill Medicine 

Favored Weapon scimitar 

Domains fire, healing, sun, truth 

Cleric Spells ist: burning hands, 3rd: fireball, 4th: wall of fire 


EQUIPMENT 
E 
SPELLS 
Ei. 
a 98. 
| THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 
f "v 
~ PLAYING THE 
2 — GAME 


al 


I 


GAME 


B TREASURE 


as pire ES eae | 

z eo 4 

| CORE RULEBOOK 3 
SHELYN [NG] 


The Eternal Rose is the goddess of art, beauty, 

love, and music. She seeks to one day redeem 

her corrupted brother, Zon-Kuthon. Shelyn 

promotes peace and love, and she encourages her followers to 

create beauty in a sometimes dark world. 

Edicts be peaceful, choose and perfect an art, lead by example, 
see the beauty in all things 

Anathema destroy art or allow it to be destroyed, unless saving 
a life or pursuing greater art; refuse to accept surrender 

Follower Alignments LG, NG, CG 


Devotee BeNeFits 

Divine Font heal 

Divine Skill select Crafting or Performance 

Favored Weapon glaive 

Domains creation, family, passion, protection 

Cleric Spells 1st: color spray, 3rd: enthrall, 4th: creation 


TORAG (LG) 


The dwarven deity called the Father of Creation 
is god of the forge, protection, and strategy. 
Though most widely worshipped by dwarves, 
those who treasure crafting and creation also follow Torag. 
Edicts be honorable and forthright, keep your word, respect 
the forge, serve your people 
Anathema tell lies or cheat someone, intentionally create 
inferior works, show mercy to the enemies of your people 
Follower Alignments LG, LN 


Devotee BeNeFits 

Divine Font heal 

Divine Skill Crafting 

Favored Weapon warhammer 

Domains creation, earth, family, protection 

Cleric Spells 1st: mindlink, 3rd: earthbind, 4th: creation 


URGATHOA [NE] 


The amoral Pallid Princess oversees disease, 

gluttony, and undeath. 

Edicts become undead upon death, create or 
protect the undead, sate your appetites 

Anathema deny your appetites, destroy undead, sacrifice 
your life 

Follower Alignments LE, NE, CE 


Devotee BeneriTs 

Divine Font harm 

Divine Skill Intimidation 

Favored Weapon scythe 

Domains indulgence, magic, might, undeath 

Cleric Spells 1st: goblin pox, 2nd: false life, 7th: mask of terror 


ZON-KUTHON [LE] 


The Midnight Lord is god of darkness, envy, loss, 
and pain. Once a god of art, beauty, and music, 


like Shelyn, he returned from a sojourn in the dark spaces 

between the planes horribly changed. 

Edicts bring pain to the world, mutilate your body 

Anathema create permanent or long-lasting sources of light, 
provide comfort to those who suffer 

Follower Alignments LN, LE, NE 


Devotee BeNeriTS 

Divine Font harm 

Divine Skill Intimidation 

Favored Weapon spiked chain 

Domains ambition, darkness, destruction, pain 

Cleric Spells 1st: phantom pain, 3rd: wall of thorns, 5th: 
shadow walk 


FAITHS AND PHILOSOPHIES 

Of course, faith can express itself in more ways than 
venerating a single deity—or a deity at all. A few examples 
of nondeific religions and philosophies are presented 
below. Clerics can work with allied faiths and philosophies, 
but the organizations here turn to other classes—such as 
sorcerers with divine bloodlines, druids, or monks—to 
serve as their leaders. These faiths and philosophies don't 
have an external godhead that offers benefits to devotees. 


ATHEISM 


While most concede that the gods exist, some do not view 

them as worthy of worship, and a few even deny their 

presence altogether. 

Edicts pursue your own agenda with faith in your own ability 
to excel 

Anathema offer prayers to a deity 

Follower Alignments all 


GREEN FAITH 


The worshippers of the Green Faith count many 
druids among their number. They view nature 
as divine and draw strength from the knowledge 
of their place in the natural order. 

Edicts guide civilization to grow in harmony with nature, 
preserve areas of natural wilderness, protect endangered 
species 

Anathema cause damage to natural settings, kill animals for 
reasons other than self-defense or sustenance, allow abuse 
of natural resources 

Follower Alignments CN, LN, N, NE, NG 


PROPHECIES OF KALISTRADE 


The dream-records of an eccentric mystic teach 
that wealth can be achieved through a strict 
and abstemious code of behavior. 

Edicts accumulate personal wealth, foster and 
aid mercantile pursuits, welcome newcomers regardless of 
gender or ancestry 

Anathema spend money frivolously; offer money to those who 


don't deserve wealth; overindulge in physical pleasures 
Follower Alignments LG, LN, LE 


WHISPERING WAY 


These cultists believe undeath is the truest 

form of existence, and life is meant to be spent 

in preparation for transition to a more glorious 

unlife after death. 

Edicts seek methods to become undead (a lich if possible), 
oppose those who seek to destroy undead, protect 


TABLE 8-2: DOMAINS 


Domain Description 

Air You can control winds and the weather. 

Ambition You strive to keep up with and outpace the competition. 
Cities You have powers over urban environments and denizens. 
Confidence You overcome your fear and project pride. 

Creation You have divine abilities related to crafting and art. 
Darkness You operate in the darkness and take away the light. 
Death You have the power to end lives and destroy undead. 


Destruction You are a conduit for divine devastation. 


Dreams You have the power to enter and manipulate dreams. 
Earth You control soil and stone. 
Family You aid and protect your family and community 
more effectively. 
Fate You see and understand hidden inevitabilities. 
Fire You control flame. 
Freedom You liberate yourself and others from shackles 
and constraints. 
Healing Your healing magic is particularly potent. 
Indulgence You feast mightily and can shake off the effects 
of overindulging. 
Knowledge You receive divine insights. 
Luck You're unnaturally lucky and keep out of harm's way. 
Magic You perform the unexpected and inexplicable. 
Might Your physical power is bolstered by divine strength. 
Moon You command powers associated with the moon. 
Nature You hold power over animals and plants. 
Nightmares You fill minds with horror and dread. 
Pain You punish those who displease you with the sharp 
sting of pain. 
Passion You evoke passion, whether as love or lust. 
Perfection You strive to perfect your mind, body, and spirit. 
Protection You ward yourself and others. 
Secrecy You protect secrets and keep them hidden. 
Sun You harness the power of the sun and other light 
sources, and punish undead. 
Travel You have power over movement and journeys. 
Trickery You deceive others and cause mischief. 
Truth You pierce lies and discover the truth. 
Tyranny You wield power to rule and enslave others. 
Undeath Your magic carries close ties to the undead. 
Water You control water and bodies of water. 
Wealth You hold power over wealth, trade, and treasure. 


Zeal Your inner fire increases your combat prowess. 


gom ER AE TE iE d 


E THE AGE OF LOST OMENS 


| Dore M $ E eps ge: z pau ve 


necromantic secrets, serve the Whispering Tyrant 
Anathema destroy necromantic texts (unless they reveal secrets 

of the Whispering Way), teach others of the Whispering Way 

other than by whispering, use positive energy to harm undead 
Follower Alignments LE, NE, CE 


DOMAINS 


The following domains are used by the primary deities of 
Golarion, as listed on pages 437-440. 


a a 


Domain Spell 
Pushing gust 
Blind ambition 
Face in the crowd 
Veil of confidence 
Splash of art 
Cloak of shadow 
Death's call 

Cry of destruction 
Sweet dream 
Hurtling stone 
Soothing words 


Read fate 
Fire ray 
Unimpeded stride 


Healer's blessing 
Overstuff 


Scholarly recollection 
Bit of luck 

Magic's vessel 
Athletic rush 
Moonbeam 

Vibrant thorns 
Waking nightmare 
Savor the sting 


Charming touch 
Perfected mind 
Protector’s sacrifice 
Forced quiet 
Dazzling flash 


Agile feet 

Sudden shift 

Word of truth 

Touch of obedience 
Touch of undeath 
Tidal surge 
Appearance of wealth 
Weapon surge 


Advanced Domain Spell 
Disperse into air 
Competitive edge 
Pulse of the city 
Delusional pride 
Artistic flourish 
Darkened eyes 
Eradicate undeath 
Destructive aura 
Dreamer’s call 
Localized quake 
Unity 


Tempt fate 
Flame barrier 
Word of freedom 


Rebuke death 
Take its course 


Know the enemy 
Lucky break 
Mystic beacon 
Enduring might 
Touch of the moon 
Nature's bounty 
Shared nightmare 
Retributive pain 


Captivating adoration 
Perfected form 
Protector's sphere 
Safeguard secret 
Positive luminance 


Traveler's transit 
Trickster's twin 
Glimpse the truth 
Commanding lash 
Malignant sustenance 
Downpour 

Precious metals 

Zeal for battle 


me 


EQUIPMENT 


_ SPELLS 
98. 

THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 
"Je 
PLAYING THE 

GAME 


- GAME 


E MASTERING 


CORE RULEBOOK 4 


CHAPTER 9: PLAYING THE GAME 


At this point, you have a character and are ready to play Pathfinder! Or maybe you’re 
the GM and you are getting ready to run your first adventure. Either way, this chapter 
provides the full details for the rules outlined in Chapter 1: Introduction. This chapter 
begins by describing the general rules and conventions of how the game is played and then 
presents more in-depth explanations of the rules for each mode of play. 


eS ee) a >. DN 


Before diving into how to play Pathfinder, it’s important to 
understand the game’s three modes of play, which determine 
the pace of your adventure and the specific rules you'll use 
at a given time. Each mode provides a different pace and 
presents a different level of risk to your characters. The 
Game Master (GM) determines which mode works best 
for the story and controls the transition between them. 
You'll likely talk about the modes less formally during 
your play session, simply transitioning between exploration 
and encounters during the adventure, before heading to a 
settlement to achieve something during downtime. 

The most intricate of the modes is encounter mode. This 
is where most of the intense action takes place, and it’s most 
often used for combat or other high-stakes situations. The 
GM typically switches to encounter mode by calling on 
the players to “roll for initiative” to determine the order in 
which all the actors take their turns during the encounter. 
Time is then divided into a series of rounds, each lasting 
roughly 6 seconds in the game world. Each round, player 
characters, other creatures, and sometimes even hazards or 
events take their turn in initiative order. At the start of a 
participant’s turn, they gain the use of a number of actions 
(typically 3 in the case of PCs and other creatures) as well as 
a special action called a reaction. These actions, and what 
you do with them, are how you affect the world within 
an encounter. The full rules for playing in encounter mode 
start on page 468. 

In exploration mode, time is more flexible and the play 
more free form. In this mode, minutes, hours, or even 
days in the game world pass quickly in the real world, as 
the characters travel cross country, explore uninhabited 
sections of a dungeon, or roleplay during a social 
gathering. Often, developments during exploration lead to 
encounters, and the GM will switch to that mode of play 
until the encounter ends, before returning to exploration 
mode. The rules for exploration start on page 479. 

The third mode is downtime. During downtime, the 
characters are at little risk, and the passage of time is 
measured in days or longer. This is when you might forge a 
magic sword, research a new spell, or prepare for your next 
adventure. The rules for downtime are on page 481. 


GENERAL RULES 


Before exploring the specific rules of each mode of play, 
you'll want to understand a number of general rules of 


the game. To one degree or another, these rules are used 
in every mode of play. 


MAKING CHOICES 
Pathfinder is a game where your choices determine the 
story’s direction. Throughout the game, the GM describes 
what’s happening in the world and then asks the players, “So 
what do you do?” Exactly what you choose to do, and how 
the GM responds to those choices, builds a unique story 
experience. Every game is different, because you'll rarely, 
if ever, make the same decisions as another group of players. 
This is true for the GM as well—two GMs running the exact 
same adventure will put different emphasis and flourishes 
on the way they present each scenario and encounter. 

Often, your choices have no immediate risk or 
consequences. If you're traveling along a forest path and 
come across a fork in the trail, the GM will ask, *Which 
way do you go?" You might choose to take the right fork 
or the left. You could also choose to leave the trail, or just 
go back to town. Once your choice is made, the GM tells 
you what happens next. Down the line, that choice may 
impact what you encounter later in the game, but in many 
cases nothing dangerous happens immediately. 

But sometimes what happens as a result of your choices 
is less than certain. In those cases, you'll attempt a check. 


CHECKS 
When success isn't certain—whether you're swinging a 
sword at a foul beast, attempting to leap across a chasm, or 
straining to remember the name of the earl's second cousin 
at a soiree—you'll attempt a check. Pathfinder has many 
types of checks, from skill checks to attack rolls to saving 
throws, but they all follow these basic steps. 

1. Roll a d20 and identify the modifiers, bonuses, 

and penalties that apply. 

2. Calculate the result. 

3. Compare the result to the difficulty class (DC). 

4. Determine the degree of success and the effect. 


Checks and difficulty classes (DC) both come in many 
forms. When you swing your sword at that foul beast, 
you'll make an attack roll against its Armor Class, which 
is the DC to hit another creature. If you are leaping across 
that chasm, you'll attempt an Athletics skill check with a 


EQUIPMENT 


2e. 


| PLAYING THE 


pe SE EIS 


F INDER) CORE RULEBOOK j 
S ash ea 
GAME CONVENTIONS 


Pathfinder has many specific rules, but you'll also want to 
keep these general guidelines in mind when playing. 


The GM Has the Final Say 
If you're ever uncertain how to apply a rule, the GM decides. 
Of course, Pathfinder is a game, so when adjudicating the 
rules, the GM is encouraged to listen to everyone's point of 
view and make a decision that is both fair and fun. 


Specific Overrides General 
A core principle of Pathfinder is that specific rules 
override general ones. If two rules conflict, the more 
specific one takes precedence. If theres still ambiguity, 
the GM determines which rule to use. For example, the 
rules state that when attacking a concealed creature, you 
must attempt a DC 5 flat check to determine if you hit. Flat 
checks don't benefit from modifiers, bonuses, or penalties, 
but an ability that's specifically designed to overcome 
concealment might override and alter this. If a rule doesn't 
specify otherwise, default to the general rules presented 
in this chapter. While some special rules may also state the 
normal rules to provide context, you should always default 
to the normal rules even if effects don't specifically say to. 


Rounding 
You may need to calculate a fraction of a value, like halving 
damage. Always round down unless otherwise specified. 
For example, if a spell deals 7 damage and a creature takes 
half damage from it, that creature takes 3 damage. 


Multiplying 

When more than one effect would multiply the same 
number, don’t multiply more than once. Instead, combine 
all the multipliers into a single multiplier, with each 
multiple after the first adding 1 less than its value. For 
instance, if one ability doubled the duration of one of your 
spells and another one doubled the duration of the same 
spell, you would triple the duration, not quadruple it. 


Duplicate Effects 

When you're affected by the same thing multiple times, only 
one instance applies, using the higher level of the effects, or 
the newer effect if the two are the same level. For example, 
if you were using mage armor and then cast it again, you'd 
still benefit from only one casting of that spell. Casting a 
spell again on the same target might get you a better 
duration or effect if it were cast at a higher level the second 
time, but otherwise doing so gives you no advantage. 


Ambiguous Rules 
Sometimes a rule could be interpreted multiple ways. If one 
version is too good to be true, it probably is. If a rule seems 
to have wording with problematic repercussions or doesn't 
work as intended, work with your group to find a good 
solution, rather than just playing with the rule as printed. 


DC based on the distance you are trying to jump. When 
calling to mind the name of the earl's second cousin, 
you attempt a check to Recall Knowledge. You might 
use either the Society skill or a Lore skill you have 
that's relevant to the task, and the DC depends on how 
common the knowledge of the cousin's name might be, 
or how many drinks your character had when they were 
introduced to the cousin the night before. 

No matter the details, for any check you must roll the 
d20 and achieve a result equal to or greater than the DC 
to succeed. Each of these steps is explained below. 


STEP 1: ROLL D20 AND IDENTIFY THE MODIFIERS, 


BONUSES, AND PENALTIES THAT APPLY 

Start by rolling your d20. You'll then identify all the 
relevant modifiers, bonuses, and penalties that apply to the 
roll. A modifier can be either positive or negative, but a 
bonus is always positive, and a penalty is always negative. 
The sum of all the modifiers, bonuses, and penalties you 
apply to the d20 roll is called your total modifier for that 
statistic. 

Nearly all checks allow you to add an ability modifier to 
the roll. An ability modifier represents your raw capabilities 
and is derived from an ability score, as described on page 
20. Exactly which ability modifier you use is determined by 
what you’re trying to accomplish. Usually a sword swing 
applies your Strength modifier, whereas remembering the 
name of the earl's cousin uses your Intelligence modifier. 

When attempting a check that involves something you 
have some training in, you will also add your proficiency 
bonus. This bonus depends on your proficiency rank: 
untrained, trained, expert, master, or legendary. If you’re 
untrained, your bonus is +0—you must rely on raw 
talent and any bonuses from the situation. Otherwise, the 
bonus equals your character’s level plus a certain amount 
depending on your rank. If your proficiency rank is trained, 
this bonus is equal to your level + 2, and higher proficiency 
ranks further increase the amount you add to your level. 


Proficiency Rank Proficiency Bonus 


Untrained 0 
Trained Your level + 2 
Expert Your level + 4 
Master Your level + 6 

Legendary Your level + 8 


There are three other types of bonus that frequently 
appear: circumstance bonuses, item bonuses, and status 
bonuses. If you have different types of bonus that would 
apply to the same roll, you’ll add them all. But if you have 
multiple bonuses of the same type, you can use only the 
highest bonus on a given roll—in other words, they don’t 
“stack.” For instance, if you have both a proficiency bonus 
and an item bonus, you add both to your d20 result, but 
if you have two item bonuses that could apply to the same 
check, you add only the higher of the two. 


Circumstance bonuses typically involve the situation 
you find yourself in when attempting a check. For 
instance, using Raise a Shield with a buckler grants you a 
+1 circumstance bonus to AC. Being behind cover grants 
you a +2 circumstance bonus to AC. If you are both 
behind cover and Raising a Shield, you gain only the +2 
circumstance bonus for cover, since they’re the same type 
and the bonus from cover is higher. 

Item bonuses are granted by some item that you 
are wearing or using, either mundane or magical. For 
example, armor gives you an item bonus to AC, while 
expanded alchemist’s tools grant you an item bonus to 
Crafting checks when making alchemical items. 

Status bonuses typically come from spells, other 
magical effects, or something applying a helpful, often 
temporary, condition to you. For instance, the 3rd-level 
heroism spell grants a +1 status bonus to attack rolls, 
Perception checks, saving throws, and skill checks. If 
you were under the effect of heroism and someone cast 
the bless spell, which also grants a +1 status bonus on 
attacks, your attack rolls would gain only a +1 status 
bonus, since both spells grant a +1 status bonus to those 
rolls, and you only take the highest status bonus. 

Penalties work very much like bonuses. You can have 
circumstance penalties, status penalties, and sometimes 
even item penalties. Like bonuses of the same type, you 
take only the worst all of various penalties of a given 
type. However, you can apply both a bonus and a penalty 
of the same type on a single roll. For example, if you had 
a +1 status bonus from a heroism spell but a —2 status 
penalty from the sickened condition, you’d apply them 
both to your roll—so heroism still helps even though 
you’re feeling unwell. 

Unlike bonuses, penalties can also be untyped, in which 


nas 


case they won’t be classified as “circumstance,” “item,” or 
“status.” Unlike other penalties, you always add all your 
untyped penalties together rather than simply taking the 
worst one. For instance, when you use attack actions, 
you incur a multiple attack penalty on each attack you 
make on your turn after the first attack, and when you 
attack a target that’s beyond your weapon’s normal 
range increment, you incur a range penalty on the attack. 
Because these are both untyped penalties, if you make 
multiple attacks at a faraway target, you’d apply both the 
multiple attack penalty and the range penalty to your roll. 
Once you've identified all your various modifiers, 
bonuses, and penalties, you move on to the next step. 


CALCULATING CHECK RESULTS 


| Proficiency bonus 
+ Circumstance bonus 
Status bonus 
Item bonus 


Ability 
modifier 


Number 
on the die 


STEP 2: CALCULATE THE RESULT 


This step is simple. Add up all the various modifiers, 
bonuses, and penalties you identified in Step 1—this is 
your total modifier. Next add that to the number that came 
up on your d20 roll. This total is your check result. 


STEP 3: COMPARE THE RESULT TO THE DC 
This step can be simple, or it can create suspense. Sometimes 
you'll know the Difficulty Class (DC) of your check. In these 
cases, if your result is equal to or greater than the DC, you 
succeed! If your roll anything less than the DC, you fail. 
Other times, you might not know the DC right away. 
Swimming across a river would require an Athletics check, 
but it doesn’t have a specified DC—so how will you know 
if you succeed or fail? You call out your result to the GM 
and they will let you know if it is a success, failure, or 
otherwise. While you might learn the exact DC through 
trial and error, DCs sometimes change, so asking the GM 
whether a check is successful is the best way to determine 
whether or not you have met or exceeded the DC. 


CaLcuLATING DCs 

Whenever you attempt a check, you compare your result 
against a DC. When someone or something else attempts 
a check against you, rather than both forces rolling 
against one another, the GM (or player, if the opponent is 
another PC) compares their result to a fixed DC based on 
your relevant statistic. Your DC for a given statistic is 10 
+ the total modifier for that statistic. 


STEP 4: DETERMINE THE DEGREE OF SUCCESS 
AND EFFECT 


Many times, it’s important to determine not only if you 
succeed or fail, but also how spectacularly you succeed or 
fail. Exceptional results—either good or bad—can cause 
you to critically succeed at or critically fail a check. 

You critically succeed at a check when the check’s result 
meets or exceeds the DC by 10 or more. If the check is an 
attack roll, this is sometimes called a critical hit. You can 
also critically fail a check. The rules for critical failure— 
sometimes called a fumble—are the same as those for a 
critical success, but in the other direction: if you fail a 
check by 10 or more, that’s a critical failure. 

If you rolled a 20 on the die (a “natural 20”), your result 
is one degree of success better than it would be by numbers 
alone. If you roll a 1 on the d20 (a “natural 1”), your 
result is one degree worse. This means that a natural 20 


If you have more than one bonus or penalty of a 
particular type, apply only the highest 


Circumstance penalty 
Status penalty 
Item penalty 
All untyped penalties 


= Result 


THE AGE OF 
‘LOST OMENS 


= oem VDE n PETTITT 
j| F CORE RULEBOOK 4 
: ————— ir i Y oem " 


usually results in a critical success and natural 1 usually 
results in a critical failure. However, if you were going up 
against a very high DC, you might get only a success with 
a natural 20, or even a failure if 20 plus your total modifier 
is 10 or more below the DC. Likewise, if your modifier for 
a statistic is so high that adding it to a 1 from your d20 roll 
exceeds the DC by 10 or more, you can succeed even if you 
roll a natural 1! If a feat, magic item, spell, or other effect 
does not list a critical success or critical failure, treat is as 
an ordinary success or failure instead. 

Some other abilities can change the degree of success for 
rolls you get. When resolving the effect of an ability that 
changes your degree of success, always apply the adjustment 
from a natural 20 or natural 1 before anything else. 


SPECIFIC CHECKS 

While most checks follow these basic rules, it's useful to 
know about a few specific types of checks, how they're 
used, and how they differ from one another. 


ATTACK ROLLS 


When you use a Strike action or make a spell attack, you 
attempt a check called an attack roll. Attack rolls take a 
variety of forms and are often highly variable based on the 
weapon you are using for the attack, but there are three 
main types: melee attack rolls, ranged attack rolls, and spell 
attack rolls. Spell attack rolls work a little bit differently, so 
they are explained separately on the next page. 

Melee attack rolls use Strength as their ability modifier by 
default. If you're using a weapon or attack with the finesse 
trait, then you can use your Dexterity modifier instead. 


Melee attack roll result = d20 roll + Strength 

modifier (or optionally Dexterity modifier for 

a finesse weapon) + proficiency bonus + other 
bonuses * penalties 


Ranged attack rolls use Dexterity as their ability modifier. 


Ranged attack roll result = d20 roll + Dexterity 
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + 
penalties 


When attacking with a weapon, whether melee or ranged, 
you add your proficiency bonus for the weapon you’re using. 
Your class determines your proficiency rank for various 
weapons. Sometimes, you'll have different proficiency ranks 
for different weapons. For instance, at Sth level, a fighter 
gains the weapon mastery class feature, which grants master 
proficiency with the simple and martial weapons of one 
weapon group, expert proficiency with advanced weapons 
of that group and other simple and martial weapons, and 
trained proficiency in all other advanced weapons. 

The bonuses you might apply to attack rolls can come 
from a variety of sources. Circumstance bonuses can come 


from the aid of an ally or a beneficial situation. Status 
bonuses are typically granted by spells and other magical 
aids. The item bonus to attack rolls comes from magic 
weapons—notably, a weapon’s potency rune (page 580). 

Penalties to attack rolls come from situations and effects 
as well. Circumstance penalties come from risky tactics 
or detrimental circumstances, status penalties come from 
spells and magic working against you, and item penalties 
occur when you use a shoddy item (page 273). When 
making attack rolls, two main types of untyped penalties 
are likely to apply. The first is the multiple attack penalty, 
and the second is the range penalty. The first applies 
anytime you make more than one attack action during the 
course of your turn, and the other applies only with ranged 
or thrown weapons. Both are described below. 


Mucripte Attack PenaLTY 
The more attacks you make beyond your first in a single 
turn, the less accurate you become, represented by the 
multiple attack penalty. The second time you use an attack 
action during your turn, you take a —5 penalty to your 
check. The third time you attack, and on any subsequent 
attacks, you take a —10 penalty to your check. Every check 
that has the attack trait counts toward your multiple 
attack penalty, including Strikes, spell attack rolls, certain 
skill actions like Shove, and many others. 

Some weapons and abilities reduce multiple attack 
penalties, such as agile weapons, which reduce these 
penalties to —4 on the second attack or -8 on further attacks. 


Attack Multiple Attack Penalty Agile 
First None None 
Second -5 -4 
Third or subsequent -10 -8 


Always calculate your multiple attack penalty for the 
weapon yov’re using on that attack. For example, let’s say 
you’re wielding a longsword in one hand and a shortsword 
(which has the agile trait) in your other hand, and you are 
going to make three Strikes with these weapons during the 
course of your turn. The first Strike you make during your 
turn has no penalty, no matter what weapon you are using. 
The second Strike will take either a —5 penalty if you use 
the longsword or a —4 penalty if you use the shortsword. 
Just like the second attack, the penalty for your third attack 
is based on which weapon you’re using for that particular 
Strike. It would be a —10 penalty with the longsword and 
a —8 penalty with the shortsword, no matter what weapon 
you used for your previous Strikes. 

The multiple attack penalty applies only during your 
turn, so you don't have to keep track of it if you can 
perform an Attack of Opportunity or a similar reaction 
that lets you make a Strike on someone else's turn. 


Rance PENALTY 
Ranged and thrown weapons each have a listed range 


increment, and attacks with them grow less accurate 
against targets farther away (range and range increments 
are covered in depth on page 279). As long as your target is 
at or within the listed range increment, also called the first 
range increment, you take no penalty to the attack roll. If 
you’re attacking beyond that range increment, you take a 
-2 penalty for each additional increment beyond the first. 
You can attempt to attack with a ranged weapon or thrown 
weapon up to six range increments away, but the farther 
away you are, the harder it is to hit your target. 

For example, the range increment of a crossbow is 120 
feet. If you are shooting at a target no farther away than 
that distance, you take no penalty due to range. If they’re 
beyond 120 feet but no more than 240 feet away, you 
take a —2 penalty due to range. If they're beyond 240 feet 
but no more than 360 feet away, you take a —4 penalty 
due to range, and so on, until you reach the last range 
increment: beyond 600 feet but no more than 720 feet 
away, where you take a -10 penalty due to range. 


Armor DLAss 
Attack rolls are compared to a special difficulty class called 
an Armor Class (AC), which measures how hard it is for 
your foes to hit you with Strikes and other attack actions. 
Just like for any other check and DC, the result of an 
attack roll must meet or exceed your AC to be successful, 
which allows your foe to deal damage to you. 

Armor Class is calculated using the following formula. 


Armor Class = 10 + Dexterity modifier (up to your 
armor's Dex Cap) + proficiency bonus + armor's 
item bonus to AC + other bonuses + penalties 


Use the proficiency bonus for the category (light, 
medium, or heavy) or the specific type of armor you're 
wearing. If you're not wearing armor, use your proficiency 
in unarmored defense. 

Armor Class can benefit from bonuses with a variety 
of sources, much like attack rolls. Armor itself grants an 
item bonus, so other item bonuses usually won't apply to 
your AC, but magic armor can increase the item bonus 
granted by your armor. 

Penalties to AC come from situations and effects in 
much the same way bonuses do. Circumstance penalties 
come from unfavorable situations, and status penalties 
come from effects that impede your abilities or from 
broken armor. You take an item penalty when you wear 
shoddy armor (page 273). 


SPELL ATTACK RDLLS 


If you cast spells, you might be able to make a spell attack 
roll. These rolls are usually made when a spell makes an 
attack against a creature's AC. 

The ability modifier for a spell attack roll depends on 
how you gained access to your spells. If your class grants 
you spellcasting, use your key ability modifier. Innate spells 


gm Eon liar < aP 


E PLAYING THE GAME 


e ne 


STRIDING AND STRIKING 
Two of the simplest and most common actions you'll use in 
combat are Stride and Strike, described in full on page 471. 

Stride is an action that has the move trait and that 
allows you to move a number of feet up to your Speed. 
You'll often need to Stride multiple times to reach a foe 
who's far away or to run from danger! Move actions can 
often trigger reactions or free actions. However, unlike 
other actions, a move action can trigger reactions not 
only when you first use the action, but also for every 5 
feet you move during that action, as described on page 
474. The Step action (page 471) lets you move without 
triggering reactions, but only 5 feet. 

Strike is an action that has the attack trait and that 
allows you to attack with a weapon you're wielding or an 
unarmed attack (such as a fist). 

If you're using a melee weapon or unarmed attack, your 
target must be within your reach; if you're attacking with 
a ranged weapon, your target must be within range. Your 
reach is how far you can physically extend a part of your 
body to make an unarmed attack, or the farthest distance 
you can reach with a melee weapon. This is typically 5 
feet, but special weapons and larger creatures have longer 
reaches. Your range is how far away you can attack with 
a ranged weapon or with some types of magical attacks. 
Different weapons and magical attacks have different 
maximum ranges, and ranged weapons get less effective 
as you exceed their range increments. 

Striking multiple times in a turn has diminishing 
returns. The multiple attack penalty (detailed on page 
446) applies to each attack after the first, whether those 
attacks are Strikes, special attacks like the Grapple action 
of the Athletics skill, or spell attack rolls. 


use your Charisma modifier unless the ability that granted 
them states otherwise. Focus spells and other sources of 
spells specify which ability modifier you use for spell attack 
rolls in the ability that granted them. If you have spells from 
multiple sources or traditions, you might use different ability 
modifiers for spell attack rolls for these different sources of 
spells. For example, a dwarf cleric with the Stonewalker 
ancestry feat would use her Charisma modifier when casting 
meld into stone from that feat, since it's a divine innate spell, 
but she would use her Wisdom modifier when casting heal 
and other spells using her cleric divine spellcasting. 
Determine the spell attack roll with the following formula. 


Spell attack roll result = d20 roll + ability modifier 
used for spellcasting * proficiency bonus * other 
bonuses * penalties 


If you have the ability to cast spells, you'll have a 
proficiency rank for your spell attack rolls, so you'll 
always add a proficiency bonus. Like your ability 
modifier, this proficiency rank may vary from one spell 


ake et 


EQUIPMENT 


-SPELLS 
W 


LY 
|. THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


LUCA 


| PLAYING THE 


GAME 


B TREASURE 
E 


Wa 


THFINDE R) CORE RULEBOOK g 


x 


to another if you have spells from multiple sources. Spell 
attack rolls can benefit from circumstance bonuses and 
status bonuses, though item bonuses to spell attack rolls 
are rare. Penalties affect spell attack rolls just like any 
other attack roll—including your multiple attack penalty. 

Many times, instead of requiring you to make a spell 
attack roll, the spells you cast will require those within 
the area or targeted by the spell to attempt a saving 
pA throw against your Spell DC to determine how the spell 
| i affects them. 


1 [^] 


Your spell DC is calculated using the following formula. 


Spell DC = 10 + ability modifier used for 
spellcasting * proficiency bonus * other bonuses * 
penalties 


PERCEPTION 


Perception measures your ability to be aware of your 
environment. Every creature has Perception, which works 
with and is limited by a creature’s senses (described on 
page 464). Whenever you need to attempt a check based 
on your awareness, you'll attempt a Perception check. 
Your Perception uses your Wisdom modifier, so you'll use 
the following formula when attempting a Perception check. 


Perception check result = d20 roll + Wisdom 
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + 
penalties 


Nearly all creatures are at least trained in Perception, so 
you will almost always add a proficiency bonus to your 
Perception modifier. You might add a circumstance 

f bonus for advantageous 
Ans environments, and typically get status bonuses 


situations or 


II from spells or other magical effects. Items can 
also grant you a bonus to Perception, typically 
f in a certain situation. For instance, a fine spyglass 
grants a +1 item bonus to Perception when attempting 
to see something a long distance away. Circumstance 
penalties to Perception occur when an environment or 
situation (such as fog) hampers your senses, while status 
penalties typically come from conditions, spells, and magic 
effects that foil the senses. You'll rarely encounter item 
penalties or untyped penalties for Perception. 

Many abilities are compared to your Perception DC to 
determine whether they succeed. Your Perception DC is 
10 + your total Perception modifier. 


PERCEPTION FOR INITIATIVE 

Often, you'll roll a Perception check to determine your order 
in initiative. When you do this, instead of comparing the 
result against a DC, everyone in the encounter will compare 
their results. The creature with the highest result acts first, 
the creature with the second-highest result goes second, and 
so on. Sometimes you may be called on to roll a skill check 
for initiative instead, but you’ll compare results just as if 
you had rolled Perception. The full rules for initiative are 
found in the rules for encounter mode on page 468. 


SAVING THROWS 


There are three types of saving throws: Fortitude 
saves, Reflex saves, and Will saves. In all 

cases, saving throws measure your ability 
— " to shrug off harmful effects in the form 
of afflictions, damage, or conditions. You'll 


always add a proficiency bonus to each save. Your class 
might give a different proficiency to each save, but you'll 
be trained at minimum. Some circumstances and spells 
might give you circumstance or status bonuses to saves, 
and you might find resilient armor or other magic items 
that give an item bonus. 

Fortitude saving throws allow you to reduce the effects 
of abilities and afflictions that can debilitate the body. 
They use your Constitution modifier and are calculated 
as shown in the formula below. 


Fortitude save result = d20 roll + Constitution 
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + 
penalties 


Reflex saving throws measure how well you can 
respond quickly to a situation and how gracefully you 
can avoid effects that have been thrown at you. They use 
your Dexterity modifier and are calculated as shown in 
the formula below. 


Reflex save result = d20 roll + Dexterity modifier + 
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties 


Will saving throws measure how well you can resist 
attacks to your mind and spirit. They use your Wisdom 
modifier and are calculated as shown in the formula below. 


Will save result = d20 roll + Wisdom modifier + 
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties 


Sometimes you'll need to know your DC for a given 
saving throw. The DC for a saving throw is 10 + the total 
modifier for that saving throw. 

Most of the time, when you attempt a saving throw, 
you don't have to use your actions or your reaction. 
You don't even need to be able to act to attempt saving 
throws. However, in some special cases you might have 
to take an action to attempt a save. For instance, you can 
try to recover from the sickened condition by spending an 
action to attempt a Fortitude save. 


Basic Savine Throws 

Sometimes you will be called on to attempt a basic saving 

throw. This type of saving throw works just like any 

other saving throw—the “basic” part refers to the effects. 

For a basic save, you’ll attempt the check and determine 

whether you critically succeed, succeed, fail, or critically 

fail like you would any other saving throw. Then one of 

the following outcomes applies based on your degree of 

success—no matter what caused the saving throw. 

Critical Success You take no damage from the spell, hazard, or 
effect that caused you to attempt the save. 

Success You take half the listed damage from the effect. 

Failure You take the full damage listed from the effect. 

Critical Failure You take double the listed damage from the effect. 


RIE > EE item 


PLAYING THE 


-5 es a 


FORTUNE AND MISFORTUNE EFFECTS 
Fortune and misfortune effects can alter how you roll 
your dice. These abilities might allow you to reroll a 
failed roll, force you to reroll a successful roll, allow you 
to roll twice and use the higher result, or force you to roll 
twice and use the lower result. 

You can never have more than one fortune effect 
or misfortune effect come into play on a single roll. For 
instance, if an effect lets you roll twice and use the higher 
roll, you can't then use Halfling Luck (a fortune effect) to 
reroll if you fail. If multiple fortune effects would apply, 
you have to pick which to use. If two misfortune effects 
apply, the GM decides which is worse and applies it. 

If both a fortune effect and a misfortune effect would 
apply to the same roll, the two cancel each other out, and 
you roll normally. 


SKILL CHECKS 


Pathfinder has a variety of skills, from Athletics to 
Medicine to Occultism. Each grants you a set of related 
actions that rely on you rolling a skill check. Each skill 
has a key ability score, based on the scope of the skill 
in question. For instance, Athletics deals with feats of 
physical prowess, like swimming and jumping, so its key 
ability score is Strength. Medicine deals with the ability 
to diagnose and treat wounds and ailments, so its key 
ability score is Wisdom. The key ability score for each 
skill is listed in Chapter 4: Skills. No matter which 
skill you’re using, you calculate a check for it using the 
following formula. 


Skill check result = d20 roll + modifier of the 
skill’s key ability score + proficiency bonus + other 
bonuses + penalties 


You’re unlikely to be trained in every skill. When 
using a skill in which you’re untrained, your proficiency 
bonus is +0; otherwise, it equals your level plus 2 for 
trained, or higher once you become expert or better. 
The proficiency rank is specific to the skill you’re using. 
Aid from another character or some other beneficial 
situation may grant you a circumstance bonus. A status 
bonus might come from a helpful spell or magical effect. 
Sometimes tools related to the skill grant you an item 
bonus to your skill checks. Conversely, unfavorable 
situations might give you a circumstance penalty to your 
skill check, while harmful spells, magic, or conditions 
might also impose a status penalty. Using shoddy or 
makeshift tools might cause you to take an item penalty. 
Sometimes a skill action can be an attack, and in these 
cases, the skill check might take a multiple attack 
penalty, as described on page 446. 

When an ability calls for you to use the DC for a 
specific skill, you can calculate it by adding 10 + your 
total modifier for that skill. 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 
THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 
9.8. 
| PLAYING THE 
GAME 
© OOS 
GAME 
MASTERING 


B F 
& TREASURE 


E RULEBOOK ¢ 


neve SD namni 


A — as oir lit = ee 


NOTATING TOTAL MODIFIERS 


When creating your character and adventuring you'll 
record the total modifier for various important checks on 
your character sheet. Since many bonuses and penalties 
are due to the immediate circumstances, spells, and other 
temporary magical effects, you typically won't apply 
them to your notations. 

Item bonuses and penalties are often more persistent, 
so you will often want to record them ahead of time. For 
instance, if you are using a weapon with a «1 weapon 
potency rune, you'll want to add the +1 item bonus to 
your notation for your attack rolls with that weapon, 
since you will include that bonus every time you attack 
with that weapon. But if you have a fine spyglass, you 
wouldn't add its item bonus to your Perception check 
notation, since you gain that bonus only if you are using 
sight—and the spyglass—to see long distances. 


SPECIAL CHECKS 


Some categories of checks follow special rules. The most 
notable are flat checks and secret checks. 


FLAT CHECKS 


When the chance something will happen or fail to happen 
is based purely on chance, you'll attempt a flat check. A flat 
check never includes any modifiers, bonuses, or penalties— 
you just roll a d20 and compare the result on the die to 
the DC. Only abilities that specifically apply to flat checks 
can change the checks’ DCs; most such effects affect only 
certain types of flat checks. 

If more than one flat check would ever cause or prevent 
the same thing, just roll once and use the highest DC. In the 
rare circumstance that a flat check has a DC of 1 or lower, 
skip rolling; you automatically succeed. Conversely, if one 
ever has a DC of 21 or higher, you automatically fail. 


SECRET CHECKS 


Sometimes you as the player shouldn’t know the exact 
result and effect of a check. In these situations, the rules 
(or the GM) will call for a secret check. The secret trait 
appears on anything that uses secret checks. This type of 
check uses the same formulas you normally would use for 
that check, but is rolled by the GM, who doesn’t reveal the 
result. Instead, the GM simply describes the information or 
effects determined by the check’s result. If you don’t know 
a secret check is happening (for instance, if the GM rolls 
a secret Fortitude save against a poison that you failed to 
notice), you can’t use any fortune or misfortune abilities 
(see the sidebar on page 449) on that check, but if a fortune 
or misfortune effect would apply automatically, the GM 
applies it to the secret check. If you know that the GM is 
attempting a secret check—as often happens with Recall 
Knowledge or Seek—you can usually activate fortune or 
misfortune abilities for that check. Just tell the GM, and 
they’ll apply the ability to the check. 


The GM can choose to make any check secret, even if 
it’s not usually rolled secretly. Conversely, the GM can 
let you roll any check yourself, even if that check would 
usually be secret. Some groups find it simpler to have players 
roll all secret checks and just try to avoid acting on any 
out-of-character knowledge, while others enjoy the mystery. 


DAMAGE 
In the midst of combat, you attempt checks to determine 
if you can damage your foe with weapons, spells, or 
alchemical concoctions. On a successful check, you hit 
and deal damage. Damage decreases a creature’s Hit 
Points on a 1-to-1 basis (so a creature that takes 6 damage 
loses 6 Hit Points). The full rules can be found in the Hit 
Points, Healing, and Dying section on page 459. 
Damage is sometimes given as a fixed amount, but more 
often than not you'll make a damage roll to determine 
how much damage you deal. A damage roll typically uses 
a number and type of dice determined by the weapon 
or unarmed attack used or the spell cast, and it is often 
enhanced by various modifiers, bonuses, and penalties. 
Like checks, a damage roll—especially a melee weapon 
damage roll—is often modified by a number of modifiers, 
penalties, and bonuses. When making a damage roll, you 
take the following steps, explained in detail below. 

1. Roll the dice indicated by the weapon, unarmed 
attack, or spell, and apply the modifiers, bonuses, 
and penalties that apply to the result of the roll. 

2. Determine the damage type. 

3. Apply the target's immunities, weaknesses, and 
resistances to the damage. 

4.If any damage remains, reduce the target's Hit 
Points by that amount. 


STEP 1: ROLL THE DAMAGE DICE AND APPLY 
MODIFIERS, BONUSES, AND PENALTIES 


Your weapon, unarmed attack, spell, or even a magic item 
determines what type of dice you roll for damage, and how 
many. For instance, if you’re using a normal longsword, 
you'll roll 1d8. If you're casting a 3rd-level fireball spell, 
you'll roll 6d6. Sometimes, especially in the case of weapons, 
you'll apply modifiers, bonuses, and penalties to the damage. 

When you use melee weapons, unarmed attacks, and 
thrown ranged weapons, the most common modifier you'll 
add to damage is your Strength ability modifier. Weapons 
with the propulsive trait sometimes add half your Strength 
modifier. You typically do not add an ability modifier to 
spell damage, damage from most ranged weapons, or 
damage from alchemical bombs and similar items. 

As with checks, you might add circumstance, status, 
or item bonuses to your damage rolls, but if you have 
multiple bonuses of the same type, you add only the highest 
bonus of that type. Again like checks, you may also apply 
circumstance, status, item, and untyped penalties to the 
damage roll, and again you apply only the greatest penalty 


of a specific type but apply all untyped penalties together. 
Use the formulas below. 


Melee damage roll = damage die of weapon or 
unarmed attack + Strength modifier + bonuses + 
penalties 


Ranged damage roll = damage die of weapon + 
Strength modifier for thrown weapons + bonuses 
+ penalties 


Spell (and similar effects) damage roll E damage 
die of the effect + bonuses + penalties 


If the combined penalties on an attack would reduce the 
damage to 0 or below, you still deal 1 damage. Sometimes 
there are other considerations, described below. 


INcREASING DAMAGE 

In some cases, you increase the number of dice you roll 
when making weapon damage rolls. Magic weapons 
etched with the striking rune can add one or more weapon 
damage dice to your damage roll. These extra dice are the 
same die size as the weapon's damage die. At certain levels, 
most characters gain the ability to deal extra damage from 
the weapon specialization class feature. 


Persistent DAMAGE 

Persistent damage is a condition that causes damage to 
recur beyond the original effect. Like normal damage, it can 
be doubled or halved based on the results of an attack roll 
or saving throw. Unlike with normal damage, when you are 
subject to persistent damage, you don’t take it right away. 
Instead, you take the specified damage at the end of your 
turns, after which you attempt a DC 15 flat check to see if 
you recover from the persistent damage. See page 621 in 
the Conditions Appendix for the complete rules regarding 
the persistent damage condition. 


DoueLng ano Hacvinc DAMAGE 

Sometimes you’ll need to halve or double an amount of 
damage, such as when the outcome of your Strike is a critical 
hit, or when you succeed at a basic Reflex save against a spell. 
When this happens, you roll the damage normally, adding 
all the normal modifiers, bonuses, and penalties. Then you 
double or halve the amount as appropriate (rounding down 
if you halved it). The GM might allow you to roll the dice 
twice and double the modifiers, bonuses, and penalties 
instead of doubling the entire result, but this usually works 
best for single-target attacks or spells at low levels when you 
have a small number of damage dice to roll. Benefits you 
gain specifically from a critical hit, like the flaming weapon 
rune’s persistent fire damage or the extra damage die from 
the fatal weapon trait, aren’t doubled. 


STEP 2: DETERMINE THE DAMAGE TYPE 


Once you've calculated how much damage you deal, 
you'll need to determine the damage type. There are many 
types of damage, and certain types are applied in different 
ways. The smack of a club deals bludgeoning damage. 
The stab of a spear deals piercing damage. The staccato 
crack of a lightning bolt spell deals electricity damage. 
Sometimes you might apply precision damage, dealing 
more damage for hitting a creature in a vulnerable spot 
or when the target is somehow vulnerable. The damage 
types are described on page 452. 


STEP 3: APPLY THE TARGET’S IMMUNITIES, 
WEAKNESSES, AND RESISTANCES 


Defenses against certain types of damage or effects are 
called immunities or resistances, while vulnerabilities 
are called weaknesses. Apply immunities first, then 
weaknesses, and resistances third. Immunity, weakness, 
or resistance to an alignment applies only to damage of 
that type, not to damage from an attacking creature of 
that alignment. 


IMMUNITY 

When you have immunity to a specific type of damage, 
you ignore all damage of that type. If you have immunity 
to a specific condition or type of effect, you can’t be 
affected by that condition or any effect of that type. You 
can still be targeted by an ability that includes an effect 
or condition you are immune to; you just don’t apply that 
particular effect or condition. 

If you have immunity to effects with a certain trait 
(such as death effects, poison, or disease), you are 
unaffected by effects with that trait. Often, an effect has 
a trait and deals that type of damage (this is especially 
true in the case of energy damage types). In these cases, 
the immunity applies to the effect corresponding to the 
trait, not just the damage. However, some complex effects 
might have parts that affect you even if you’re immune 
to one of the effect’s traits; for instance, a spell that deals 
both fire and acid damage can still deal acid damage to 
you even if you’re immune to fire. 

Immunity to critical hits works a little differently. 
When a creature immune to critical hits is critically hit 
by a Strike or other attack that deals damage, it takes 
normal damage instead of double damage. This does not 
make it immune to any other critical success effects of 
other actions that have the attack trait (such as Grapple 
and Shove). 

Another exception is immunity to nonlethal attacks. If 
you are immune to nonlethal attacks, you are immune 
to all damage from attacks with the nonlethal trait, no 
matter what other type the damage has. For instance, 
a stone golem has immunity to nonlethal attacks. This 
means that no matter how hard you hit it with your fist, 
you’re not going to damage it—unless your fists don’t 
have the nonlethal trait, such as if you’re a monk. 


EQUIPMENT 

Esc 

; ‘SPELLS 

Em y 

- THE AGE OF 

LOST OMENS 
9.8. 

| PLAYING THE 

| GAME 


IK 


| B TREASURE 


ADD 
APPEND 


e 


ne 


| i 


ie [ 
ort 


JSATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


~. DAT TSE | 


a 


p= 3 —e 


DAMAGE TYPES 


Damage has a number of different types and categories, 
which are described below. 


Physical Damage 

Damage dealt by weapons, many physical hazards, and a 
handful of spells is collectively called physical damage. The 
main types of physical damage are bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing. Bludgeoning damage comes from weapons 
and hazards that deal blunt-force trauma, like a hit from 
a club or being dashed against rocks. Piercing damage is 
dealt from stabs and punctures, whether from a dragon's 
fangs or the thrust of a spear. Slashing damage is delivered 
by a cut, be it the swing of the sword or the blow from a 
scythe blades trap. 

Ghosts and other incorporeal creatures have a high 
resistance to physical attacks that aren't magical (attacks 
that lack the magical trait). Furthermore, most incorporeal 
creatures have additional, though lower, resistance to 
magical physical damage (such as damage dealt from a 
mace with the magical trait) and most other damage types. 


Energy Damage 

Many spells and other magical effects deal energy damage. 
Energy damage is also dealt from effects in the world, such 
as the biting cold of a blizzard to a raging forest fire. The 
main types of energy damage are acid, cold, electricity, fire, 
and sonic. Acid damage can be delivered by gases, liquids, 
and certain solids that dissolve flesh, and sometimes 
harder materials. Cold damage freezes material by way 
of contact with chilling gases and ice. Electricity damage 
comes from the discharge of powerful lightning and sparks. 
Fire damage burns through heat and combustion. Sonic 
damage assaults matter with high-frequency vibration 
and sound waves. Many times, you deal energy damage 
by casting magic spells, and doing so is often useful 
against creatures that have immunities or resistances to 
physical damage. 

Two special types of energy damage specifically target 
the living and the undead. Positive damage harms only 
undead creatures, withering undead bodies and disrupting 
incorporeal undead. Negative damage saps life, damaging 
only living creatures. 

Powerful and pure magical energy can manifest itself 
as force damage. Few things can resist this type of 
damage-not even incorporeal creatures such as ghosts 
and wraiths. 


Alignment Damage 
Weapons and effects keyed to a particular alignment can 
deal chaotic, evil, good, or lawful damage. These damage 
types apply only to creatures that have the opposing 
alignment trait. Chaotic damage harms only lawful 
creatures, evil damage harms only good creatures, good 


damage harms only evil creatures, and lawful damage 
harms only chaotic creatures. 


Mental Damage 
Sometimes an effect can target the mind with enough 
psychic force to actually deal damage to the creature. When 
it does, it deals mental damage. Mindless creatures and 
those with only programmed or rudimentary intelligence 
are often immune to mental damage and effects. 


Poison Damage 
Venoms, toxins and the like can deal poison damage, which 
affects creatures by way of contact, ingestion, inhalation, 
or injury. In addition to coming from monster attacks, 
alchemical items, and spells, poison damage is often caused 
by ongoing afflictions, which follow special rules described 
on page 457. 


Bleed Damage 
Another special type of physical damage is bleed damage. 
This is persistent damage that represents loss of blood. 
As such, it has no effect on nonliving creatures or living 
creatures that don't need blood to live. Weaknesses and 
resistances to physical damage apply. Bleed damage ends 
automatically if you're healed to your full Hit Points. 


Precision Damage 

Sometimes you are able to make the most of your attack 
through sheer precision. When you hit with an ability that 
grants you precision damage, you increase the attack's listed 
damage, using the same damage type, rather than tracking a 
separate pool of damage. For example, a non-magical dagger 
Strike that deals 1d6 precision damage from a rogue's sneak 
attack increases the piercing damage by 1d6. 

Some creatures are immune to precision damage, 
regardless of the damage type; these are often amorphous 
creatures that lack vulnerable anatomy. A creature immune 
to precision damage would ignore the 1d6 precision damage 
in the example above, but it would still take the rest of 
the piercing damage from the Strike. Since precision 
damage is always the same type of damage as the attack 
its augmenting, a creature that is resistant to physical 
damage, like a gargoyle, would resist not only the dagger's 
damage but also the precision damage, even though it is not 
specifically resistant to precision damage. 


Precious Materials 
While not their own damage category, precious materials 
can modify damage to penetrate a creature's resistances 
or take advantage of its weaknesses. For instance, silver 
weapons are particularly effective against werecreatures 
and bypass the resistances to physical damage that most 
devils have. 


TEMPORARY IMMUNITY 

Some effects grant you immunity to the same effect for a set 
amount of time. If an effect grants you temporary immunity, 
repeated applications of that effect don’t affect you for as 
long as the temporary immunity lasts. Unless the effect says 
it applies only to a certain creature’s ability, it doesn’t matter 
who created the effect. For example, the blindness spell 
says, “The target is temporarily immune to blindness for 
1 minute.” If anyone casts blindness on that creature again 
before 1 minute passes, the spell has no effect. 

Temporary immunity doesn’t prevent or end ongoing 
effects of the source of the temporary immunity. For 
instance, if an ability makes you frightened and you then gain 
temporary immunity to the ability, you don’t immediately 


STEP 4: IF DAMAGE REMAINS, REDUCE THE 
TARGET’S HIT POINTS 


After applying the target’s immunities, resistances, and 
weaknesses to the damage, the damage reduces the 
target’s Hit Points on a 1-to-1 basis. More information 
about Hit Points can be found in the Hit Points, Healing, 
and Dying section on page 459. 


NoNLETHAL ATTACKS 

You can make a nonlethal attack in an effort to knock 
someone out instead of killing them (see Knocked Out 
and Dying on page 459). Weapons with the nonlethal 
trait (including fists) do this automatically. You take a 


-2 circumstance penalty to the attack roll when you make |. ae 


SPELLS 
t 


lose the frightened condition due to the immunity you a nonlethal attack using a weapon that doesn't have the 


just gained—you simply don't become frightened if you're nonlethal trait. You also take this penalty when making a | 


lethal attack using a nonlethal weapon. . 
Spells and other effects with the nonlethal trait that 


reduce a creature to 0 Hit Points knock the creature out 


targeted by the ability again before the immunity ends. 


[^ 
.. THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 
instead of killing them. | OQ 

| PLAYING THE 


| GAME 


WEAKNESS 

If you have a weakness to a certain type of damage or 
damage from a certain source, that type of damage is extra 
effective against you. Whenever you would take that type 


of damage, increase the damage you take by the value of 
the weakness. For instance, if you are dealt 2d6 fire damage 
and have weakness 5 to fire, you take 2d6+5 fire damage. 

If you have a weakness to something that doesn't normally 
deal damage, such as water, you take damage equal to the 
weakness value when touched or affected by it. If more than 
one weakness would apply to the same instance of damage, 
use only the highest applicable weakness value. This usually 
happens only when a monster is weak to both a type of 
physical damage and a given material. 


RESISTANCE 

If you have resistance to a type of damage, each time you 
take that type of damage, you reduce the amount of damage 
you take by the listed amount (to a minimum of 0 damage). 
Resistance can specify combinations of damage types or 
other traits. For instance, you might encounter a monster 
that’s resistant to non-magical bludgeoning damage, meaning 
it would take less damage from bludgeoning attacks that 
weren't magical, but would take normal damage from your 
+1 mace (since it's magical) or a non-magical spear (since 
it deals piercing damage). A resistance also might have an 
exception. For example, resistance 10 to physical damage 
(except silver) would reduce any physical damage by 10 
unless that damage was dealt by a silver weapon. 

If you have more than one type of resistance that 
would apply to the same instance of damage, use only the 
highest applicable resistance value. 

It's possible to have resistance to all damage. When an 
effect deals damage of multiple types and you have resistance 
to all damage, apply the resistance to each type of damage 
separately. If an attack would deal 7 slashing damage and 
4 fire damage, resistance 5 to all damage would reduce the 
slashing damage to 2 and negate the fire damage entirely. 


CONDITIONS 
The results of various checks might apply conditions to 
you or, less often, an item. Conditions change your state of 
being in some way. You might be gripped with fear or made 
faster by a spell or magic item. One condition represents 
what happens when a creature successfully drains your 
blood or life essence, while others represent creatures' 
attitudes toward you and how they interact with you. 
Conditions are persistent; when you're affected by a 
condition, its effects last until the stated duration ends, the 
condition is removed, or terms dictated in the condition 
cause it to end. The rules for conditions are summarized 
on page 454 and described in full on pages 618-623. 


EFFECTS 
Anything you do in the game has an effect. Many of 
these outcomes are easy to adjudicate during the game. 
If you tell the GM that you draw your sword, no check 
is needed, and the result is that your character is now 
holding a sword. Other times, the specific effect requires 
more detailed rules governing how your choice is resolved. 
Many spells, magic items, and feats create specific effects, 
and your character will be subject to effects caused by 
monsters, hazards, the environment, and other characters. 

While a check might determine the overall impact or 
strength of an effect, a check is not always part of creating 
an effect. Casting a fly spell on yourself creates an effect 
that allows you to soar through the air, but casting the spell 
does not require a check. Conversely, using the Intimidate 
skill to Demoralize a foe does require a check, and your 
result on that check determines the effect's outcome. 

The following general rules are used to understand and 
apply effects. 


) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
i a ae re ed | 


CONDITIONS 


These conditions appear often in the game and are defined 
in detail in the Conditions Appendix on pages 618-623. 
Here's a brief summary of each. 


Blinded: You're unable to see. 


Broken: This item can't be used for its 
normal function until repaired. 


Clumsy: You can't move as easily or gracefully as usual. 


Concealed: Fog or similar obscuration 
makes you difficult to see and target. 


Confused: You attack indiscriminately. 

Controlled: Another creature determines your actions. 
Dazzled: Everything is concealed to you. 

Deafened: You're unable to hear. 


Doomed: With your soul in peril, you 
are now closer to death. 


Drained: Blood loss or something similar 
has leached your vitality. 


Dying: You're slipping closer to death. 


Encumbered: You're carrying more weight 
than you can manage. 


Enfeebled: Your strength has been sapped away. 


Fascinated: You are compelled to focus 
your attention on something. 


Fatigued: Your defenses are lower and you cant 
use exploration activities while traveling. 


Flat-Footed: You're unable to defend 
yourself to your full capability. 


Fleeing: You must run away. 


Friendly: An NPC with this condition 
has a good attitude toward you. 


Frightened: Fear makes you less capable 
of attacking and defending. 


Grabbed: A creature, object, or magic holds you in place. 
Helpful: An NPC with this condition wants to assist you. 


Hidden: A creature you're hidden from knows 
your location but can't see you. 


Hostile: An NPC with this 
condition wants to harm you. 


JM" 


Immobilized: You can't move. 


Indifferent: An NPC with this condition 
doesn't have a strong opinion about you. 


Invisible: Creatures can't see you. 
Observed: You're in plain view. 


Paralyzed: Your body 
is frozen in place. 


Persistent Damage: You keep 
taking damage every round. 


Petrified: You've been turned to stone. 
Prone: You're lying on the ground and easier to attack. 
Quickened: You get an extra action each turn. 


Restrained: You're tied up and can't move, or 
a grappling creature has you pinned. 


Sickened: You're sick to your stomach. 
Slowed: You lose actions each turn. 
Stunned: You can't use actions. 


Stupefied: You can't access your full mental 
faculties, and you have trouble casting spells. 


Unconscious: You're asleep or knocked out. 


Undetected: A creature you're undetected 
by doesn't know where you are. 


Unfriendly: An NPC with this condition doesn't like you. 
Unnoticed: A creature is entirely unaware you're present. 


Wounded: You've been brought back from the 
brink of death but haven't fully recovered. 


DURATION 


Most effects are discrete, creating an instantaneous effect 


when you let the GM know what actions you are going 
to use. Firing a bow, moving to a new space, or taking 
something out of your pack all resolve instantly. Other 
effects instead last for a certain duration. Once the duration 
has elapsed, the effect ends. The rules generally use the 
following conventions for durations, though spells have 
some special durations detailed on pages 304—305. 

For an effect that lasts a number of rounds, the remaining 
duration decreases by 1 at the start of each turn of the 
creature that created the effect. This is common for beneficial 
effects that target you or your allies. Detrimental effects often 
last “until the end of the target’s next turn” or “through” a 
number of their turns (such as “through the target’s next 3 
turns”), which means that the effect’s duration decreases at 
the end of the creature’s turn, rather than the start. 

Instead of lasting a fixed number of rounds, a duration 
might end only when certain conditions are met (or cease to 
be true). If so, the effects last until those conditions are met. 


RANGE AND REACH 


Actions and other abilities that generate an effect typically 
work within a specified range or a reach. Most spells and 
abilities list a range—the maximum distance from the 
creature or object creating the effect in which the effect 
can occur. 

Ranged and thrown weapons have a range increment. 
Attacks with such weapons work normally up to that range. 


Attacks against targets beyond that range take a —2 
penalty, which worsens by 2. for every additional multiple 
of that range, to a maximum of a —10 penalty after five 
additional range increments. Attacks beyond this range 
are not possible. For example, if you are using a shortbow, 
your attacks take no penalty against a target up to 60 feet 
away, a —2 penalty if a target is over 60 and up to 120 feet 
away, a —4 if a target is over 120 and up to 180 feet away, 
and so on, up to a maximum distance of 360 feet. 

Reach is how far you can physically reach with your body 
or a weapon. Melee Strikes rely on reach. Your reach also 
creates an area around your space where other creatures 
could trigger your reactions. Your reach is typically 5 feet, 
but weapons with the reach trait can extend this. Larger 
creatures can have greater reach; for instance, an ogre has 
a 10-foot reach. Unlike with measuring most distances, 
10-foot reach can reach 2 squares diagonally. Reach greater 
than 10 feet is measured normally; 20-foot reach can reach 
3 squares diagonally, 30-foot reach can reach 4, and so on. 


TARGETS 


Some effects require you to choose specific targets. 
Targeting can be difficult or impossible if your chosen 
creature is undetected by you, if the creature doesn't match 
restrictions on who you can target, or if some other ability 
prevents it from being targeted. 

Some effects require a target to be willing. Only you 
can decide whether your PC is willing, and the GM 
decides whether an NPC is willing. Even if you or your 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


GAME 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


character don’t know what the effect is, such as if your 
character is unconscious, you still decide if you’re willing. 

Some effects target or require an ally, or otherwise 
refer to an ally. This must be someone on your side, often 
another PC, but it might be a bystander you are trying to 
protect. You are not your own ally. If it isn’t clear, the GM 
decides who counts as an ally or an enemy. 


AREAS 


Some effects occupy an area of a specified shape and size. 
An area effect always has a point of origin and extends out 
from that point. There are four types of areas: emanations, 


AREAS | 
EMANATION 


Jua 


bursts, cones, and lines. When you’re playing in encounter 
mode and using a grid, areas are measured in the same 
way as movement (page 463), but areas’ distances are 
never reduced or affected by difficult terrain (page 475) or 
lesser cover (page 476). You can use the diagrams below 
as common reference templates for areas, rather than 
measuring squares each time. Many area effects describe 
only the effects on creatures in the area. The GM determines 
any effects to the environment and unattended objects. 


Burst 
A burst effect issues forth in all directions from a single 


—QO Smaller Creature - 
f o Large Creature — 


corner of a square within the range of the effect, spreading 
in all directions to a specified radius. For instance, when 
you cast fireball, it detonates at the corner of a square 
within 500 feet of you and creates a 20-foot burst, meaning 
it extends out 20 feet in every direction from the corner of 
the square you chose, affecting each creature whose space 
(or even one square of its space) is within the burst. 


Cone 
A cone shoots out from you in a quarter circle on the grid. 
When you aim a cone, the first square of that cone must 
share an edge with your space if you’re aiming orthogonally, 
or it must touch a corner of your space if you’re aiming 
diagonally. If you’re Large or larger, the first square can 
run along the edge of any square of your space. You can’t 
aim a cone so that it overlaps your space. The cone extends 
out for a number of feet, widening as it goes, as shown in 
the Areas diagram. For instance, when a green dragon uses 
its breath weapon, it breathes a cone of poisonous gas that 
originates at the edge of one square of its space and affects 
a quarter-circle area 30 feet on each edge. 

If you make a cone originate elsewhere, use these same 
rules, with the first square of the cone using an edge or 
corner of that creature or object’s space instead of your own. 


EMANATION 

An emanation issues forth from each side of your space, 
extending out to a specified number of feet in all directions. 
For instance, the bless spell’s emanation radiates 5 or more 
feet outward from the caster. Because the sides of a creature’s 
space are the starting point for the emanation, an emanation 
from a Large or larger creature affects a greater overall area 
than that of a Medium or smaller creature. Unless the text 
states otherwise, the creature creating an emanation effect 
chooses whether the creature at its center is affected. 


LiNE 

A line shoots forth from you, following a straight path 
in a direction of your choosing. The line affects each 
creature whose space it overlaps. Unless a line effect says 
otherwise, it is 5 feet wide. For example, the lightning 
bolt spell's area is a 60-foot line that's 5 feet wide. 


LINE OF EFFECT 


When creating an effect, you usually need an unblocked 
path to the target of a spell, the origin point of an effect’s 
area, or the place where you create something with a spell 
or other ability. This is called a line of effect. You have 
line of effect unless a creature is entirely behind a solid 
physical barrier. Visibility doesn’t matter for line of effect, 
nor do portcullises and other barriers that aren’t totally 
solid. Usually a 1-foot-square gap is enough to maintain a 
line of effect, though the GM makes the final call. 

In an area effect, creatures or targets must have line of 
effect to the point of origin to be affected. If there’s no 
line of effect between the origin of the area and the target, 


th e 


the effect doesn’t apply to that target. For example, if 
there’s a solid wall between the origin of a fireball and 
a creature that’s within the burst radius, the wall blocks 
the effect—that creature is unaffected by the fireball and 
doesn’t need to attempt a save against it. Likewise, any 
ongoing effects created by an ability with an area cease 
to affect anyone who moves outside of the line of effect. 


LINE OF SIGHT 


Some effects require you to have line of sight to your target. 
As long as you can precisely sense the area (as described 
in Perception on page 464) and it is not blocked by a 
solid barrier (as described in Cover on pages 476-477), 
you have line of sight. An area of darkness prevents line 
of sight if you don’t have darkvision, but portcullises and 
other obstacles that aren’t totally solid do not. If you’re 
unsure whether a barrier is solid enough to block line of 
sight, usually a 1-foot-square gap is enough to maintain 
line of sight, though the GM makes the final call. 


AFFLICTIONS 


Diseases and poisons are types of afflictions, as are curses 
and radiation. An affliction can infect a creature for a long 
time, progressing through different and often increasingly 
debilitating stages. The level of an affliction is the level of 
the monster, hazard, or item causing the affliction or, in the 
case of a spell, is listed in the affliction entry for that spell. 


FORMAT 


Whether appearing ina spell, as an item, or within a creature's 
stat block, afflictions appear in the following format. 


Name AND TRAITS 

The affliction’s name is given first, followed by its traits in 
parentheses—including the trait for the type of affliction 
(curse, disease, poison, and so forth). If the affliction 
needs to have a level specified, it follows the parentheses, 
followed by any unusual details, such as restrictions on 
removing the conditions imposed by an affliction. 


Savine THROW 

When you’re first exposed to the affliction, you must 
attempt a saving throw against it. This first attempt to 
stave off the affliction is called the initial save. An affliction 
usually requires a Fortitude save, but the exact save and its 
DC are listed after the name and type of affliction. Spells 
that can poison you typically use the caster’s spell DC. 

On a successful initial saving throw, you are unaffected 
by that exposure to the affliction. You do not need to 
attempt further saving throws against it unless you are 
exposed to the affliction again. 

If you fail the initial saving throw, after the affliction’s 
onset period elapses (if applicable), you advance to stage 1 
of the affliction and are subjected to the listed effect. On 
a critical failure, after its onset period (if applicable), you 


« ry " 
EQUIPMENT 
E 
SPELLS 

EC p 
- THE ABE OF 
. LOST OMENS 
! OO 


| PLAYING THE 


ee m ee DII e ae A eade. | 


THFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
eR ee re err we” | 


AFFLICTION EXAMPLE 
To see how a poison works, let's look at the arsenic 
alchemical item (page 550). The item notes that you can't 
reduce your sickened condition while affected by arsenic, 
and has the following text for how the affliction works. 


Saving Throw DC 18 Fortitude; Onset 10 minutes; 
Maximum Duration 5 minutes; Stage 1 1d4 poison 
damage and sickened 1 (1 minute); Stage 2 1d6 poison 
damage and sickened 2 (1 minute); Stage 3 2d6 poison 
damage and sickened 3 (1 minute) 


For example, if you drank a glass of wine laced with 
arsenic, you would attempt an initial Fortitude save 
against the listed DC of 18. If you fail, you advance to 
stage 1. Because of the onset time, nothing happens 
for 10 minutes, but once this time passes, you take 
1d4 poison damage and become sickened 1. As noted, 
you're unable to reduce the sickened condition you 
gain from arsenic. The interval of stage 1 is 1 minute (as 
shown in parentheses), so you attempt a new save after 
1 minute passes. If you succeed, you reduce the stage 
by 1, recovering from the poison. If you fail again, the 
stage increases by 1 to stage 2, and you take 1d6 poison 
damage and become sickened 2. 

If your initial save against the arsenic was a critical 
failure, you would advance directly to stage 2. After the 
10-minute onset time, you would take 1d6 poison damage 
and become sickened 2. Succeeding at your second save 
would reduce the stage by 1 to stage 1, and you'd take 
only 1d4 poison damage. Failing the second save would 
increase by 1 again to stage 3. 

If you reach stage 3 of the poison, either by failing 
while at stage 2 or critically failing while at stage 1, you'd 
take 2d6 poison damage and be sickened 3. If you failed 
or critically failed your saving throw while at stage 3, you 
would repeat the effects of stage 3. 

Since the poison has a maximum duration of 5 minutes, 
you recover from it once the 5 minutes pass, no matter 
which stage you're at. 


advance to stage 2 of the affliction and are subjected to that 
effect instead. The stages of an affliction are described below. 


ONsET 

Some afflictions have onset times. For these afflictions, once 
you fail your initial save, you don’t gain the effects for the 
first stage of the affliction until the onset time has elapsed. 
If this entry is absent, you gain the effects for the first stage 
(or the second stage on a critical failure) immediately upon 
failing the initial saving throw. 


Maximum Duration 
If an affliction lasts only a limited amount of time, it lists 
a maximum duration. Once this duration passes, the 


affliction ends. Otherwise, it lasts until you succeed at 
enough saves to recover, as described in Stages below. 


STAGES 

An affliction typically has multiple stages, each of which 
lists an effect followed by an interval in parentheses. 
When you reach a given stage of an affliction, you are 
subjected to the effects listed for that stage. 

At the end of a stage’s listed interval, you must attempt 
a new saving throw. On a success, you reduce the stage 
by 1; on a critical success, you reduce the stage by 2. You 
are then subjected to the effects of the new stage. If the 
affliction’s stage is ever reduced below stage 1, the affliction 
ends and you don’t need to attempt further saves unless 
you’re exposed to the affliction again. 

On a failure, the stage increases by 1; on a critical failure, 
the stage increases by 2. You are then subjected to the 
effects listed for the new stage. If a failure or critical failure 
would increase the stage beyond the highest listed stage, the 
affliction instead repeats the effects of the highest stage. 


CONDITIONS FROM AFFLICTIONS 


An affliction might give you conditions with a longer or 
shorter duration than the affliction. For instance, if an 
affliction causes you to be drained but has a maximum 
duration of 5 minutes, you remain drained even after the 
affliction ends, as is normal for the drained condition. Or, 
you might succeed at the flat check to remove persistent 
damage you took from an ongoing affliction, but you would 
still need to attempt saves to remove the affliction itself, and 
failing one might give you new persistent damage. 


MULTIPLE EXPOSURES 


Multiple exposures to the same curse or disease currently 
affecting you have no effect. For a poison, however, failing 
the initial saving throw against a new exposure increases 
the stage by 1 (or by 2 if you critically fail) without 
affecting the maximum duration. This is true even if you’re 
within the poison’s onset period, though it doesn’t change 
the onset length. 


VIRULENT AFFLICTIONS 


Afflictions with the virulent trait are harder to remove. 
You must succeed at two consecutive saves to reduce a 
virulent affliction’s stage by 1. A critical success reduces a 
virulent affliction’s stage by only 1 instead of by 2. 


COUNTERACTING 


Some effects try to counteract spells, afflictions, conditions, or 
other effects. Counteract checks compare the power of two 
forces and determine which defeats the other. Successfully 
counteracting an effect ends it unless noted otherwise. 
When attempting a counteract check, add the relevant 
skill modifier or other appropriate modifier to your check 
against the target’s DC. If you’re counteracting an affliction, 


the DC is in the affliction’s stat block. If it’s a spell, use the 
caster’s DC. The GM can also calculate a DC based on the 
target effect’s level. For spells, the counteract check modifier 
is your spellcasting ability modifier plus your spellcasting 
proficiency bonus, plus any bonuses and penalties that 
specifically apply to counteract checks. What you can 
counteract depends on the check result and the target’s 
level. If an effect is a spell, its level is the counteract level. 
Otherwise, halve its level and round up to determine its 
counteract level. If an effect’s level is unclear and it came 
from a creature, halve and round up the creature’s level. 
Critical Success Counteract the target if its counteract level is no 
more than 3 levels higher than your effect’s counteract level. 
Success Counteract the target if its counteract level is no 
more than 1 level higher than your effect's counteract level. 
Failure Counteract the target if its counteract level is lower 
than your effect's counteract level. 
Critical Failure You fail to counteract the target. 


HIT POINTS, HEALING, 
AND DYING 


All creatures and objects have Hit Points (HP). Your 
maximum Hit Point value represents your health, 
wherewithal, and heroic drive when you are in good 
health and rested. Your maximum Hit Points include 
the Hit Points you gain at 1st level from your ancestry 
and class, those you gain at higher levels from your class, 
and any you gain from other sources (like the Toughness 
general feat). When you take damage, you reduce your 
current Hit Points by a number equal to the damage dealt. 

Some spells, items, and other effects, as well as simply 
resting, can heal living or undead creatures. When you 
are healed, you regain Hit Points equal to the amount 
healed, up to your maximum Hit Points. 


KNOCKED OUT AND DYING 


Creatures cannot be reduced to fewer than 0 Hit Points. 
When most creatures reach 0 Hit Points, they die and are 
removed from play unless the attack was nonlethal, in which 
case they are instead knocked out for a significant amount 
of time (usually 1 minute or more). When undead and 
construct creatures reach 0 Hit Points, they are destroyed. 

their 
significant characters and creatures don’t automatically 


Player characters, companions, and other 
die when they reach 0 Hit Points. Instead, they are 
knocked out and are at risk of death. At the GM's 
discretion, villains, powerful monsters, special NPCs, and 
enemies with special abilities that are likely to bring them 
back to the fight (like ferocity, regeneration, or healing 
magic) can use these rules as well. 

As a player character, when you are reduced to 0 Hit 
Points, you're knocked out with the following effects: 

* You immediately move your initiative position to 

directly before the turn in which you were reduced 


to 0 HP. 


* You gain the dying 1 condition. If the effect that 
knocked you out was a critical success from the 
attacker or the result of your critical failure, you 
gain the dying 2 condition instead. If you have the 
wounded condition (page 460), increase your dying 
value by an amount equal to your wounded value. 
If the damage was dealt by a nonlethal attack or 
nonlethal effect, you don't gain the dying condition; 
you are instead unconscious with 0 Hit Points. 


TAKING DAMAGE WHILE Dying 

If you take damage while you already have the dying 
condition, increase your dying condition value by 1, or by 
2 if the damage came from an attacker’s critical hit or your 
own critical failure. If you have the wounded condition, 
remember to add the value of your wounded condition to 
your dying value. 


RECOVERY CHECKS 


When you’re dying, at the start of each of your turns, you 
must attempt a flat check with a DC equal to 10 + your 
current dying value to see if you get better or worse. This 
is called a recovery check. The effects of this check are 
as follows. 

Critical Success Your dying value is reduced by 2. 

Success Your dying value is reduced by 1. 

Failure Your dying value increases by 1. 

Critical Failure Your dying value increases by 2. 


CONDITIONS RELATED TO DEATH AND DYING 


To understand the rules for getting knocked out and 
how dying works in the game, you’ll need some more 
information on the conditions used in those rules. 
Presented below are the rules for the dying, unconscious, 
wounded, and doomed conditions. 


Dyinc 

You are bleeding out or otherwise at death’s door. While 
you have this condition, you are unconscious. Dying 
always includes a value. If this value ever reaches dying 
4, you die. If you’re dying, you must attempt a recovery 
check at the start of your turn each round to determine 
whether you get better or worse. 

If you lose the dying condition by succeeding at a recovery 
check and are still at O Hit Points, you remain unconscious, 
but you can wake up as described on page 460. You lose 
the dying condition automatically and wake up if you 
ever have 1 Hit Point or more. Anytime you lose the dying 
condition, you gain the wounded 1 condition, or increase 
your wounded value by 1 if you already have that condition. 


UNconscious 

You’re sleeping, or you’ve been knocked out. You can’t act. 
You take a + status penalty to AC, Perception, and Reflex 
saves, and you have the blinded and flat-footed conditions. 
When you gain this condition, you fall prone and drop 


EQUIPMENT 
" 
SPELLS 
tt 


a 

- THE AGE OF 

. LOST OMENS 

2 OO 

| PLAYING THE 
GAME 


AOG 


| 


items you are wielding or holding unless the effect states 
otherwise or the GM determines you’re in a position in 
which you wouldn't. 

If you’re unconscious because you’re dying, you can’t 
wake up as long as you have 0 Hit Points. If you’re 
restored to 1 Hit Point or more via healing, you lose the 
dying and unconscious conditions and can act normally 
on your next turn. 

If you are unconscious and at 0 Hit Points, but not 
dying, you naturally return to 1 Hit Point and awaken 
after sufficient time passes. The GM determines how long 
you remain unconscious, from a minimum of 10 minutes 
to several hours. If you receive healing during this time, 
you lose the unconscious condition and can act normally 
on your next turn. 

If you’re unconscious and have more than 1 Hit Point 
(typically because you are asleep or unconscious due to 
an effect), you wake up in one of the following ways. 
Each causes you to lose the unconscious condition. 

* You take damage, provided the damage doesn’t 
reduce you to 0 Hit Points. (If the damage reduces 
you to 0 Hit Points, you remain unconscious and 
gain the dying condition as normal.) 

* You receive healing, other than the natural healing 
you get from resting. 

* Someone shakes you awake using an Interact action. 

* Loud noise is being made around you—though 
this isn't automatic. At the start of your turn, you 
automatically attempt a Perception check against 
the noise's DC (or the lowest DC if there 
is more than one noise), waking up 
~~ if you succeed. This is often DC 
"M 5 for a battle, but if creatures are 
attempting to stay quiet around you, 


this Perception check uses their Stealth DC. Some 
magical effects make you sleep so deeply that they 
don't allow you to attempt this Perception check. 

* If you are simply asleep, the GM decides you wake 
up either because you have had a restful night's 
sleep or something disrupted that rest. 


Wounoeo 

You have been seriously injured during a fight. Anytime 
you lose the dying condition, you become wounded 
1 if you didn’t already have the wounded condition. If 
you already have the wounded condition, your wounded 
condition value instead increases by 1. If you gain the 
dying condition while wounded, increase the dying 
condition’s value by your wounded value. The wounded 
condition ends if someone successfully restores Hit Points 
to you with Treat Wounds, or if you are restored to full 
Hit Points and rest for 10 minutes. 


Doomen 
Your life is ebbing away, bringing you ever closer to 
death. Some powerful spells and evil creatures can inflict 
the doomed condition on you. Doomed always includes 
a value. The maximum dying value at which you die is 
reduced by your doomed value. For example, if you were 
doomed 1, you would die upon reaching dying 3 instead of 
dying 4. If your maximum dying value is ever reduced to 0, 
you instantly die. When you die, you’re no longer doomed. 
Your doomed value decreases by 1 each time you get a 
full night’s rest. 


DEATH 


After you die, you can’t act or regain actions, can’t be 
affected by spells that target creatures (unless they 
specifically target dead creatures), and for all other 
purposes you are an object. When you die, you 
are reduced to 0 Hit Points if you had a different 
amount, and you can’t be brought above 0 Hit 
Points as long as you remain dead. Some magic 
can bring creatures back to life, such as the 
resurrect ritual or the raise dead spell. 


HEROIC RECOVERY 


If you have at least 1 Hero 
Point (page 467), you can 
spend all of your remaining 

Hero Points at the start of 

your turn or when your dying 

value would increase. You lose the dying 
condition entirely and stabilize with 0 Hit 

Points. You don’t gain the wounded condition 

or increase its value from losing the dying 

condition in this way, but if you 
already had that condition, you 
don’t lose it or decrease its value. 


DEATH EFFECTS AND INSTANT DEATH 


Some spells and abilities can kill you immediately or bring 
you closer to death without needing to reduce you to 
0 Hit Points first. These abilities have the death trait and 
usually involve negative energy, the antithesis of life. If you 
are reduced to 0 Hit Points by a death effect, you are slain 
instantly without needing to reach dying 4. If an effect states 
it kills you outright, you die without having to reach 
dying 4 and without being reduced to 0 Hit Points. 


MASSIVE DAMAGE 


You die instantly if you ever take damage equal to or 
greater than double your maximum Hit Points in one blow. 


TEMPORARY HIT POINTS 


Some spells or abilities give you temporary Hit Points. 
Track these separately from your current and maximum 
Hit Points; when you take damage, reduce your temporary 
Hit Points first. Most temporary Hit Points last for a 
limited duration. You can’t regain lost temporary Hit 
Points through healing, but you can gain more via other 
abilities. You can have temporary Hit Points from only one 
source at a time. If you gain temporary Hit Points when 
you already have some, choose whether to keep the amount 
you already have and their corresponding duration or to 
gain the new temporary Hit Points and their duration. 


FAST HEALING AND REGENERATION 


A creature with fast healing or regeneration regains the 
listed amount of Hit Points each round at the beginning 
of its turn. A creature with regeneration has additional 
benefits. Its dying condition can’t increase to a value 
that would kill it (this stops most creatures from going 
beyond dying 3) as long as its regeneration is active. If it 
takes damage of a type listed in the regeneration entry, 
its regeneration deactivates until the end of its next turn, 
including against the triggering damage. 


ITEMS AND HIT POINTS 


Items have Hit Points like creatures, but the rules for 
damaging them are different (page 272). An item has a 
Hardness statistic that reduces damage the item takes by 
that amount. The item then takes any damage left over. If 
an item is reduced to 0 HP, it’s destroyed. An item also has 
a Broken Threshold. If its HP are reduced to this amount or 
lower, it’s broken, meaning it can’t be used for its normal 
function and it doesn’t grant bonuses. You usually can’t 
attack an attended object (one on a creature’s person). 


ACTIONS 


You affect the world around you primarily by using 
actions, which produce effects. Actions are most closely 
measured and restricted during the encounter mode of 
play, but even when it isn’t important for you to keep strict 
track of actions, they remain the way in which you interact 


»- AE ATT: SRG ees. 
P G THE Q 
ACTION ICON KEY 
These icons appear in stat blocks as shorthand for each 
type of action. 
> Single Action 
>  Two-Action Activity 
*9>> Three-Action Activity 
P» Reaction 
e Free Action 


with the game world. There are four types of actions: single 
actions, activities, reactions, and free actions. 

Single actions can be completed in a very short time. 
They're self-contained, and their effects are generated 
within the span of that single action. During an encounter, 
you get 3 actions at the beginning of your turn, which 
you can use as described on page 468. 

Activities usually take longer and require using multiple 
actions, which must be spent in succession. Stride is a single 
action, but Sudden Charge is an activity in which you use 
both the Stride and Strike actions to generate its effect. 

Reactions have triggers, which must be met for you to use 
the reaction. You can use a reaction anytime its trigger is 
met, whether it's your turn or not. In an encounter, you get 1 
reaction each round, which you can use as described on page 
468. Outside of encounters, your use of reactions is more 
flexible and up to the GM. Reactions are usually triggered 
by other creatures or by events outside your control. 

Free actions don't cost you any of your actions per 
turn, nor do they cost your reaction. A free action with no 
trigger follows the same rules as a single action (except 
the action cost), and a free action with a trigger follows 
the same rules as a reaction (except the reaction cost). 


ACTIVITIES 


An activity typically involves using multiple actions to 
create an effect greater than you can produce with a single 
action, or combining multiple single actions to produce an 
effect that’s different from merely the sum of those actions. 
In some cases, usually when spellcasting, an activity can 
consist of only 1 action, 1 reaction, or even 1 free action. 

An activity might cause you to use specific actions 
within it. You don’t have to spend additional actions to 
perform them—they’re already factored into the activity’s 
required actions. (See Subordinate Actions on page 462.) 

You have to spend all the actions of an activity at 
once to gain its effects. In an encounter, this means you 
must complete it during your turn. If an activity gets 
interrupted or disrupted in an encounter (page 462), you 
lose all the actions you committed to it. 


EXPLORATION AND Downtime Activities 

Outside of encounters, activities can take minutes, hours, 
or even days. These activities usually have the exploration 
or downtime trait to indicate they’re meant to be used 
during these modes of play. You can often do other things 


i‘ 


[ 


| 


3i 


"we 


LAYING THE 
GAME 


OJ 


CA 


EQUIPMENT 
MES 


SPELLS 
LH 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


Rie ETN Le gon DIN e s a 


PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
: x a lt f 


IN-DEPTH ACTION RULES 


These rules clarify some of the specifics of using actions. 


Simultaneous Actions 

You can use only one single action, activity, or free action 
that doesn't have a trigger at a time. You must complete 
one before beginning another. For example, the Sudden 
Charge activity states you must Stride twice and then 
Strike, so you couldn't use an Interact action to open a door 
in the middle of the movement, nor could you perform part 
of the move, make your attack, and then finish the move. 

Free actions with triggers and reactions work differently. 
You can use these whenever the trigger occurs, even if the 
trigger occurs in the middle of another action. 


Subordinate Actions 

An action might allow you to use a simpler action—usually 
one of the Basic Actions on page 469-in a different 
circumstance or with different effects. This subordinate 
action still has its normal traits and effects, but is modified 
in any ways listed in the larger action. For example, an 
activity that tells you to Stride up to half your Speed 
alters the normal distance you can move in a Stride. The 
Stride would still have the move trait, would still trigger 
reactions that occur based on movement, and so on. The 
subordinate action doesnt gain any of the traits of the 
larger action unless specified. The action that allows you to 
use a subordinate action doesn't require you to spend more 
actions or reactions to do so; that cost is already factored in. 

Using an activity is not the same as using any of its 
subordinate actions. For example, the quickened condition 
you get from the haste spell lets you spend an extra action 
each turn to Stride or Strike, but you couldnt use the extra 
action for an activity that includes a Stride or Strike. As 
another example, if you used an action that specified, "If the 
next action you use is a Strike; an activity that includes a 
Strike wouldnt count, because the next thing you are doing 
is starting an activity, not using the Strike basic action. 


off and on as you carry out these activities, provided they 
aren't significant activities of their own. For instance, if 
you're Repairing an item, you might stretch your legs 
or have a brief discussion, but you couldn't Decipher 
Writing at the same time. 

If an activity outside of an encounter is interrupted or 
disrupted, as described in Disrupting Actions below, you 
usually lose the time you put in, but no additional time. 


ACTIONS WITH TRIGGERS 


You can use free actions that have triggers and reactions 
only in response to certain events. Each such reaction and 
free action lists the trigger that must happen for you to 
perform it. When its trigger is satisfied—and only when it 
is satisfiled—you can use the reaction or free action, though 
you don’t have to use the action if you don’t want to. 


There are only a few basic reactions and free actions that 
all characters can use. You’re more likely to gain actions 
with triggers from your class, feats, and magic items. 


LIMITATIONS ON TRIGGERS 
The triggers listed in the stat blocks of reactions and some 
free actions limit when you can use those actions. You 
can use only one action in response to a given trigger. For 
example, if you had a reaction and a free action that both 
had a trigger of “your turn begins,” you could use either of 
them at the start of your turn—but not both. If two triggers 
are similar, but not identical, the GM determines whether 
you can use one action in response to each or whether 
they’re effectively the same thing. Usually, this decision will 
be based on what’s happening in the narrative. 

This limitation of one action per trigger is per creature; 
more than one creature can use a reaction or free action 
in response to a given trigger. 


OTHER ACTIONS 


Sometimes you need to attempt something not already 
covered by defined actions in the game. When this happens, 
the rules tell you how many actions you need to spend, as 
well as any traits your action might have. For example, a 
spell that lets you switch targets might say you can do so “by 
spending a single action, which has the concentrate trait.” 
Game masters can also use this approach when a character 
tries to do something that isn’t covered in the rules. 


GAINING AND LOSING ACTIONS 


Conditions can change the number of actions you can use 
on your turn, or whether you can use actions at all. The 
slowed condition, for example, causes you to lose actions, 
while the quickened condition causes you to gain them. 
Conditions are detailed in the appendix on pages 618-623. 
Whenever you lose a number of actions—whether from 
these conditions or in any other way—you choose which 
to lose if there’s any difference between them. For instance, 
the haste spell makes you quickened, but it limits what you 
can use your extra action to do. If you lost an action while 
haste was active, you might want to lose the action from 
haste first, since it’s more limited than your normal actions. 
Some effects are even more restrictive. Certain abilities, 
instead of or in addition to changing the number of actions 
you can use, say specifically that you can’t use reactions. 
The most restrictive form of reducing actions is when an 
effect states that you can’t act: this means you can’t use any 
actions, or even speak. When you can’t act, you still regain 
your actions unless a condition (like stunned) prevents it. 


DISRUPTING ACTIONS 


Various abilities and conditions, such as an Attack of 
Opportunity, can disrupt an action. When an action 
is disrupted, you still use the actions or reactions you 
committed and you still expend any costs, but the action’s 
effects don’t occur. In the case of an activity, you usually 


lose all actions spent for the activity up through the end of 
that turn. For instance, if you began a Cast a Spell activity 
requiring 3 actions and the first action was disrupted, you 
lose all 3 actions that you committed to that activity. 
The GM decides what effects a disruption causes 
beyond simply negating the effects that would have 
occurred from the disrupted action. For instance, a Leap 
disrupted midway wouldn’t transport you back to the 
start of your jump, and a disrupted item hand off might 
cause the item to fall to the ground instead of staying in 
the hand of the creature who was trying to give it away. 


MOVEMENT 

Your movement and position determine how you interact 
with the world. Moving in exploration and downtime modes 
is relatively fluid. Movement in encounter mode follows 
additional rules explained in Movement in Encounters 
(page 473). The rules below apply in all modes of play. 


MOVEMENT TYPES 


Creatures in Pathfinder soar through the clouds, scale 
sheer cliffs, and tunnel underfoot. Most creatures have 
a Speed, which is how fast they can move across the 
ground. Some abilities give you different ways to move, 
such as through the air or underground. 

Each of these special movement types has its own 
Speed value. Many creatures have these Speeds naturally. 
The various types of movement are listed below. Since the 
Stride action can be used only with your normal Speed, 
moving using one of these movement types requires using 
a special action, and you can’t Step while using one of 
these movement types. Since Speed by itself refers to your 
land Speed, rules text concerning these special movement 
types specifies the movement types to which it applies. 
Even though Speeds aren’t checks, they can have item, 
circumstance, and status bonuses and penalties. These can’t 
reduce your Speeds below 5 feet unless stated otherwise. 

Switching from one movement type to another requires 
ending your action that has the first movement type and 
using a new action that has the second movement type. 
For instance, if you Climbed 10 feet to the top of a cliff, 
you could then Stride forward 10 feet. 


SPEED 

Most characters and monsters have a speed statistic—also 
called land Speed—which indicates how quickly they can 
move across the ground. When you use the Stride action, 
you move a number of feet equal to your Speed. Numerous 
other abilities also allow you to move, from Crawling to 
Leaping, and most of them are based on your Speed in 
some way. Whenever a rule mentions your Speed without 
specifying a type, it’s referring to your land Speed. 


Burrow Speen 
A burrow Speed lets you tunnel through the ground. 


You can use the Burrow action (page 472) if you have a 
burrow Speed. Burrowing doesn’t normally leave behind 
a tunnel unless the ability specifically states that it does. 
Most creatures need to hold their breath when burrowing, 
and they may need tremorsense (page 465) to navigate. 


Cums SPEED 

A climb Speed allows you to move up or down inclines and 
vertical surfaces. Instead of needing to attempt Athletics 
checks to Climb, you automatically succeed and move up 
to your climb Speed instead of the listed distance. 

You might still have to attempt Athletics checks to 
Climb in hazardous conditions, to Climb extremely 
difficult surfaces, or to cross horizontal planes such as 
ceilings. You can also choose to roll an Athletics check to 
Climb rather than accept an automatic success in hopes 
of getting a critical success. Your climb Speed grants you 
a +4 circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to Climb. 

If you have a climb Speed, you’re not flat-footed 
while climbing. 


Fuy Speen 
As long as you have a fly Speed, you can use the Fly and 
Arrest a Fall actions (page 472). You can also attempt to 
Maneuver in Flight if you’re trained in the Acrobatics skill. 
Wind conditions can affect how you use the Fly action. 
In general, moving against the wind uses the same rules 
as moving through difficult terrain (or greater difficult 
terrain, if you’re also flying upward), and moving with 
the wind allows you to move 10 feet for every 5 feet 
of movement you spend (not cumulative with moving 
straight downward). For more information on spending 
movement, see Movement in Encounters on page 473. 
Upward and downward movement are both relative to 
the gravity in your area; if you’re in zero gravity, moving 
up or down is no different from moving horizontally. 


Swim Speen 
With a swim Speed, you can propel yourself through 
the water with little impediment. Instead of attempting 
Athletics checks to Swim, you automatically succeed and 
move up to your swim Speed instead of the listed distance. 
Moving up or down is still moving through difficult terrain. 

You might still have to attempt checks to Swim in 
hazardous conditions or to cross turbulent water. You can 
also choose to roll an Athletics check to Swim rather than 
accept an automatic success in hopes of getting a critical 
success. Your swim Speed grants you a +4 circumstance 
bonus to Athletics checks to Swim. 

Having a swim Speed doesn’t necessarily mean you 
can breathe in water, so you might still have to hold your 
breath if you’re underwater to avoid drowning (page 478). 


FALLING 


When you fall more than 5 feet, you take bludgeoning 
damage equal to half the distance you fell when you land. 


I 
- THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 
pi 9.8. 
| PLAYING THE 
GAME 


) CORE RULEBOOK J 


Treat falls longer than 1,500 feet as though they were 
1,500 feet (750 damage). If you take any damage from 
a fall, you land prone. You fall about 500 feet in the 
first round of falling and about 1,500 feet each round 
thereafter. 

You can Grab an Edge as a reaction to reduce the 
damage from some falls. In addition, if you fall into 
water, snow, or another relatively soft substance, you 
can treat the fall as though it were 20 feet shorter, or 30 
feet shorter if you intentionally dove in. The effective 
reduction can’t be greater than the depth (so when 
falling into 10-foot-deep water, you treat the fall as 10 
feet shorter). 


FALLING ON A CREATURE 

If you land on a creature, that creature must attempt a 

DC 15 Reflex save. Landing exactly on a creature after a 

long fall is almost impossible. 

Critical Success The creature takes no damage. 

Success The creature takes bludgeoning damage equal to 
one-quarter the falling damage you took. 

Failure The creature takes bludgeoning damage equal to half 
the falling damage you took. 

Critical Failure The creature takes the same amount of 
bludgeoning damage you took from the fall. 


Farne Qpuects 

A dropped object takes damage just like a falling 
creature. If the object lands on a creature, that creature 
can attempt a Reflex save using the same rules as for a 
creature falling on a creature. Hazards and spells that 
involve falling objects, such as a rock slide, have their 
own rules about how they interact with creatures and 
the damage they deal. 


PERCEPTION 


Your Perception measures your ability to notice things, 
search for what’s hidden, and tell whether something 
about a situation is suspicious. This statistic is 
frequently used for rolling initiative to determine who 
goes first in an encounter, and it’s also used for the 
Seek action. 

The rules for rolling a Perception check are found 
on page 448. The rules below describe the effects of 
light and visibility on your specific senses to perceive 
the world, as well as the rules for sensing and locating 
creatures with Perception. 


LIGHT 


The amount of light in an area can affect how well you 
see things. There are three levels of light: bright light, 
dim light, and darkness. The rules in this book assume 
that all creatures are in bright light unless otherwise 
noted, A source of light lists the radius in which it sheds 
bright light, and it sheds dim light to double that radius. 


Bricht Licht 
In bright light, such as sunlight, creatures and objects 
can be observed clearly by anyone with average vision 


or better. Some types of creatures are dazzled or blinded 
by bright light. 


Dim Licht 

Areas in shadow or lit by weak light sources are in 
dim light. Creatures and objects in dim light have the 
concealed condition, unless the seeker has darkvision or 
low-light vision (see Special Senses on page 465), or a 
precise sense other than vision. 


DARKNESS 

A creature or object within darkness is hidden or 
undetected unless the seeker has darkvision or a precise 
sense other than vision (Special Senses are on page 465). 
A creature without darkvision or another means of 
perceiving in darkness has the blinded condition while 
in darkness, though it might be able to see illuminated 
areas beyond the darkness. If a creature can see into 
an illuminated area, it can observe creatures within 
that illuminated area normally. After being in darkness, 
sudden exposure to bright light might make you dazzled 
for a short time, as determined by the GM. 


SENSES 


The ways a creature can use Perception depend on what 
senses it has. The primary concepts you need to know 
for understanding senses are precise senses, imprecise 
senses, and the three states of detection a target can be 
in: observed, hidden, or undetected. Vision, hearing, and 
scent are three prominent senses, but they don’t have the 
same degree of acuity. 


PRECISE SENSES 

Average vision is a precise sense—a sense that can be 
used to perceive the world in nuanced detail. The only 
way to target a creature without having drawbacks is 
to use a precise sense. You can usually detect a creature 
automatically with a precise sense unless that creature is 
hiding or obscured by the environment, in which case you 
can use the Seek basic action to better detect the creature. 


IMPRECISE SENSES 

Hearing is an imprecise sense—it cannot detect the full 
range of detail that a precise sense can. You can usually 
sense a creature automatically with an imprecise sense, 
but it has the hidden condition instead of the observed 
condition. It might be undetected by you if it’s using 
Stealth or is in an environment that distorts the sense, 
such as a noisy room in the case of hearing. In those 
cases, you have to use the Seek basic action to detect the 
creature. At best, an imprecise sense can be used to make 
an undetected creature (or one you didn’t even know was 
there) merely hidden—it can’t make the creature observed. 


Vasu SENSES 
A character also has many vague senses—ones that can 
alert you that something is there but aren’t useful for 
zeroing in on it to determine exactly what it is. The 
most useful of these for a typical character is the sense 
of smell. At best, a vague sense can be used to detect the 
presence of an unnoticed creature, making it undetected. 
Even then, the vague sense isn’t sufficient to make the 
creature hidden or observed. 

When one creature might detect another, the GM 
almost always uses the most precise sense available. 

Pathfinder’s rules assume that a given creature has 
vision as its only precise sense and hearing as its only 
imprecise sense. Some characters and creatures, however, 
have precise or imprecise senses that don’t match this 
assumption. For instance, a character with poor vision 
might treat that sense as imprecise, an animal with the 
scent ability can use its sense of smell as an imprecise 
sense, and a creature with echolocation or a similar 
ability can use hearing as a precise sense. Such senses are 
often given special names and appear as “echolocation 
(precise), 


SPECIAL SENSES 


While a human might have a difficult time making 


» c 


scent (imprecise) 30 feet,” or the like. 


creatures out in dim light, an elf can see those creatures 
just fine. And though elves have no problem seeing on 
a moonlit night, their vision cannot penetrate complete 
darkness, whereas a dwarf’s can. 

Special senses grant greater awareness that allows 
a creature with these senses to either ignore or reduce 
the effects of the undetected, hidden, or concealed 
conditions (described in Detecting Creatures below) 
when it comes to situations that foil average vision. The 
following are a few examples of common special senses. 


Darkvision AND GREATER DARKVISION 

A creature with darkvision or greater darkvision can 
see perfectly well in areas of darkness and dim light, 
though such vision is in black and white only. Some 
forms of magical darkness, such as a 4th-level darkness 
spell, block normal darkvision. A creature with greater 
darkvision, however, can see through even these forms 
of magical darkness. 


Low-Licut Vision 

A creature with low-light vision can see in dim light as 
though it were bright light, so it ignores the concealed 
condition due to dim light. 


SCENT 

Scent involves sensing creatures or objects by smell, and is 
usually a vague sense. The range is listed in the ability, and 
it functions only if the creature or object being detected 
emits an aroma (for instance, incorporeal creatures usually 
do not exude an aroma). 


PLAYING THE Gi 


Las "rec. A 


DETECTING WITH OTHER SENSES 
Most abilities that designate "a creature you can see" 
or the like function just as well if the user can precisely 
sense the subject with a different sense. If a monster 
uses a sense other than vision, the GM can adapt ways of 
avoiding detection that work with the monster's senses. 
For example, a creature that has echolocation might use 
hearing as a primary sense. This could mean its quarry is 
concealed in a noisy chamber, hidden in a great enough 
din, or invisible under a silence spell. 


Using Stealth with Other Senses 

The Stealth skill is designed to use Hide for avoiding 
visual detection and Avoid Notice and Sneak to avoid 
being both seen and heard. For many special senses, a 
player can describe how they're avoiding detection by 
that special sense and use the most applicable Stealth 
action. For instance, a creature stepping lightly to avoid 
being detected via tremorsense would be using Sneak. 

In some cases, rolling a Dexterity-based Stealth skill 
check to Sneak doesn't make the most sense. For example, 
a PC trying to avoid being detected by a creature that 
senses heartbeats might meditate to slow their heart rate, 
using Wisdom instead of Dexterity for their Stealth check. 
When a creature could detect you using multiple different 
senses, use your lowest applicable ability modifier. 


If a creature emits a heavy aroma or is upwind, the GM 
can double or even triple the range of scent abilities used 
to detect that creature, and the GM can reduce the range 
if a creature is downwind. 


TREMORSENSE 

Tremorsense allows a creature to feel the vibrations 
through a solid surface caused by movement. It is usually 
an imprecise sense with a limited range (listed in the ability). 
Tremorsense functions only if the detecting creature is on 
the same surface as the subject, and only if the subject is 
moving along (or burrowing through) the surface. 


DETECTING CREATURES 


There are three conditions that measure the degree 
to which you can sense a creature: observed, hidden, 
and undetected. However, the concealed and invisible 
conditions can partially mask a creature, and the 
unnoticed condition indicates you have no idea a creature 
is around. In addition to the descriptions here, you can 
find these conditions in the Conditions Appendix on 
pages 618-623. 

With the exception of invisible, these conditions are 
relative to the viewer—it’s possible for a creature to be 
observed to you but hidden from your ally. When you’re 
trying to target a creature that’s hard to see or otherwise 
sense, various drawbacks apply. Most of these rules apply 
to objects you’re trying to detect as well as creatures. 


Sak ea 


- EQUIPMENT 


PELLS 


= 


THE AGE OF 
-LOST OMENS 


98. 


| PLAYING THE 


GAME 


"oo" 


- 


^ 


BAME 


mes 


C Naa 
y| P 


Mm T - L ue 


OK $2 


——S 


Typically, the GM tracks how well creatures detect each 
other, since neither party has perfect information. For 
example, you might think a creature is in the last place you 
sensed it, but it was able to Sneak away. Or you might think 
a creature can't see you in the dark, but it has darkvision. 

You can attempt to avoid detection by using the Stealth 
skill (page 251) to Avoid Notice, Hide, or Sneak, or by 
using Deception to Create a Diversion (page 245). 


ÜgsenvEn 

In most circumstances, you can sense creatures without 
difficulty and target them normally. Creatures in this state 
are observed. Observing requires a precise sense, which 
for most creatures means sight, but see the Detecting with 
Other Senses sidebar (page 465) for advice regarding 
creatures that don't use sight as their primary sense. If you 
can't observe the creature, it's either hidden, undetected, 
or unnoticed, and you'll need to factor in the targeting 
restrictions. Even if a creature is observed, it might still 
be concealed. 


HinnEN 

A creature that's hidden is only barely perceptible. You 
know what space a hidden creature occupies, but little 
else. Perhaps the creature just moved behind cover and 
successfully used the Hide action. Your target might be in 


a deep fogbank or behind a waterfall, where you can see 


some movement but can't determine an exact location. 
Maybe you've been blinded or the creature is under 


the effects of invisibility, but you used the Seek basic 
action to determine its general location based on hearing 
alone. Regardless of the specifics, you're flat-footed to a 
hidden creature. 

When targeting a hidden creature, before you roll to 
determine your effect, you must attempt a DC 11 flat 
check. If you fail, you don't affect the creature, though the 
actions you used are still expended—as well as any spell 
slots, costs, and other resources. You remain flat-footed to 
the creature, whether you successfully target it or not. 


UNDETECTED 

If a creature is undetected, you don’t know what space 
it occupies, you’re flat-footed to it, and you can’t easily 
target it. Using the Seek basic action can help you find 
an undetected creature, usually making it hidden from 
you instead of undetected. If a creature is undetected, 
that doesn’t necessarily mean you’re unaware of its 
presence—you might suspect an undetected creature is in 
the room with you, even though you’re unable to find its 
space. The unnoticed condition covers creatures you’re 
entirely unaware of. 

Targeting an undetected creature is difficult. If you 
suspect there’s a creature around, you can pick a square 
and attempt an attack. This works like targeting a 
hidden creature, but the flat check and attack roll are 
both rolled in secret by the GM. The GM won't tell you 
why you missed—whether it was due to failing the flat 
check, rolling an insufficient attack roll, or choosing the 


wrong square. The GM might allow you to try targeting 
an undetected creature with some spells or other abilities 
in a similar fashion. Undetected creatures are subject to 
area effects normally. 

For instance, suppose an enemy elf wizard cast 
invisibility and then Sneaked away. You suspect that with 
the elf’s Speed of 30 feet, they probably moved 15 feet 
toward an open door. You move up and attack a space 15 
feet from where the elf started and directly on the path 
to the door. The GM secretly rolls an attack roll and flat 
check, but they know that you were not quite correct— 
the elf was actually in the adjacent space! The GM tells 
you that you missed, so you decide to make your next 
attack on the adjacent space, just in case. This time, it’s 
the right space, and the GM’s secret attack roll and flat 
check both succeed, so you hit! 


UNNoTIcED 

If you have no idea a creature is even present, that 
creature is unnoticed by you. A creature that is undetected 
might also be unnoticed. This condition usually matters 
for abilities that can be used only against targets totally 
unaware of your presence. 


CONCEALMENT AND INVISIBILITY 


The concealed and invisible conditions reflect certain 
circumstances that can make a creature harder to see. 


CONCEALED 

This condition protects a creature if it’s in mist, within 
dim light, or amid something else that obscures sight but 
does not provide a physical barrier to effects. An effect 
or type of terrain that describes an area of concealment 
makes all creatures within it concealed. 

When you target a creature that’s concealed from you, 
you must attempt a DC 5 flat check before you roll to 
determine your effect. If you fail, you don’t affect the 
target. The concealed condition doesn’t change which of 
the main categories of detection apply to the creature. A 
creature in a light fog bank is still observed even though 
it’s concealed. 


INVISIBLE 

A creature with the invisible condition (by way of an 
invisibility spell or invisibility potion, for example) is 
automatically undetected to any creatures relying on 
sight as their only precise sense. Precise senses other than 
sight ignore the invisible condition. 

You can use the Seek basic action to attempt to figure 
out an invisible creature’s location, making it instead only 
hidden from you. This lasts until the invisible creature 
successfully uses Sneak to become undetected again. If 
you’re already observing a creature when it becomes 
invisible, it starts out hidden, since you know where it 
was when it became invisible, though it can then Sneak to 
become undetected. 


Sak at 


Other effects might make an invisible creature 
hidden or even observed but concealed. For instance, 
if you were tracking an invisible creature’s footprints 
through the snow, the footprints would make it hidden. 
Similarly, throwing a net over an invisible creature 
would make it observed but concealed for as long as 
the net is on the creature. 


HERO POINTS 


Your heroic deeds earn you Hero Points, which grant 
you good fortune or let you recover from the brink of 
death. Unlike most aspects of your character, which 
persist over the long term, Hero Points last for only a 
single session. 

The GM is in charge of awarding Hero Points 
(guidelines for doing so can be found on page 507). 
Usually, each character gets 1 Hero Point at the start of 
a session and can gain more later by performing heroic 
deeds—something selfless, daring, or beyond normal 
expectations. You can have a maximum of 3 Hero Points 
at a time, and you lose any remaining Hero Points at the 
end of a session. 

You can spend your Hero Points in one of two ways. 
Neither of these is an action, and you can spend Hero 
Points even if you aren’t able to act. You can spend a Hero 
Point on behalf of your familiar or animal companion. 

* Spend 1 Hero Point to reroll a check. You must use 
the second result. This is a fortune effect (which 
means you can't use more than 1 Hero Point on 
a check). 

* Spend all your Hero Points (minimum 1) to avoid 
death. You can do this when your dying condition 
would increase. You lose the dying condition 
entirely and stabilize with 0 Hit Points. You don't 
gain the wounded condition or increase its value 
from losing the dying condition in this way, but if 
you already had that condition, you don't lose it 
or decrease its value. 


DESCRIBING HEROIC DEEDS 


Because spending Hero Points reflects heroic deeds or 
tasks that surpass normal expectations, if you spend a 
Hero Point, you should describe the deed or task your 
character accomplishes with it to the other players. 

Your character’s deed might invoke a lesson learned 
in a past adventure, could be spurred by a determination 
to save someone else, or might depend on an item that 
ended up on their person due to a previous exploit. If you 
don’t want to describe the deed or don’t have any strong 
ideas about how to do so, ask the GM to come up with 
something for you. This can be a collaborative process, 
too. The GM might remind you of a long-forgotten 
event in the campaign, and all you have to do is fill in 
how that event comes to mind just at the right time, 
motivating you to push past your limits. 


Pe 
N 


3 


SPELLS 
tt 


[^ 


HE AGE OF 


_ LOST OMENS 


| 
; 
| 


| 


PLAYING THE 


$c 


CA 


GAME 


a'J'e 


THF INDER) CORE RULEBOOK : 
Hia aeee siar i Y dud c " 


ENCOUNTER MODE 


When every individual action counts, you enter the encounter mode of play. In this mode, 
time is divided into rounds, each of which is 6 seconds of time in the game world. Every 
round, each participant takes a turn in an established order. During your turn, you can use 
actions, and depending on the details of the encounter, you might have the opportunity to 
use reactions and free actions on your own turn and on others’ turns. 


SS tig gg 9 s 


STRUCTURE 


An encounter is played out in a series of rounds, 
during which the player characters, adversaries, and 
other participants in the encounter act in sequence. 
You roll initiative to determine this order at the start 
of the encounter and then play through rounds until a 
conclusion is reached and the encounter ends. The rules 
in this section assume a combat encounter—a battle—but 
the general structure can apply to any kind of encounter. 


STEP 1: ROLL INITIATIVE 


When the GM calls for it, you’ll roll initiative to 
determine your place in the initiative order, which is 
the sequence in which the encounter’s participants will 
take their turns. Rolling initiative marks the start of an 
encounter. More often than not, you'll roll initiative 
when you enter a battle. 

Typically, you’ll roll a Perception check to determine your 
initiative—the more aware you are of your surroundings, 
the more quickly you can respond. Sometimes, though, the 
GM might call on you to roll some other type of check. For 
instance, if you were Avoiding Notice during exploration 
(page 479), you’d roll a Stealth check. A social encounter 
could call for a Deception or Diplomacy check. 

The GM rolls initiative for anyone other than the player 
characters in the encounter. If these include a number of 
identical creatures, the GM could roll once for the group 
as a whole and have them take their turns within the 
group in any order. However, this can make battles less 
predictable and more dangerous, so the GM might want to 
roll initiative for some or all creatures individually unless 
it’s too much of a burden. 

Unlike a typical check, where the result is compared toa 
DC, the results of initiative rolls are ranked. This ranking 
sets the order in which the encounter’s participants act— 
the initiative order. The character with the highest result 
goes first. The second highest follows, and so on until 
whoever had the lowest result takes their turn last. 

If your result is tied with a foe’s result, the adversary goes 
first. If your result is tied with another PC’s, you can decide 
between yourselves who goes first when you reach that 
place in the initiative order. After that, your places in the 
initiative order usually don’t change during the encounter. 


STEP 2: PLAY A ROUND 


A round begins when the participant with the highest 
initiative roll result starts their turn, and it ends when the 


one with the lowest initiative ends their turn. The process 
of taking a turn is detailed below. Creatures might also act 
outside their turns with reactions and free actions. 


STEP 3: BEGIN THE NEXT ROUND 


Once everyone in the encounter has taken a turn, the 
round is over and the next one begins. Don’t roll initiative 
again; the new round proceeds in the same order as the 
previous one, repeating the cycle until the encounter ends. 


STEP 4: END THE ENCOUNTER 


When your foes are defeated, some sort of truce is reached, 
or some other event or circumstance ends the combat, 
the encounter is over. You and the other participants no 
longer follow the initiative order, and a more free-form 
style of play resumes, with the game typically moving into 
exploration mode. Sometimes at the end of an encounter, 
the GM will award Experience Points to the party or 
you'll find treasure to divvy up. 


TURNS 

When it’s your turn to act, you can use single actions (>), 
short activities (99 and *9%), reactions (2), and free 
actions (©). When you're finished, your turn ends and 
the character next in the initiative order begins their turn. 
Sometimes it's important to note when during your turn 
something happens, so a turn is divided into three steps. 


STEP 1: START YOUR TURN 


Many things happen automatically at the start of your 
turn—it's a common point for tracking the passage of time 
for effects that last multiple rounds. At the start of each of 
your turns, take these steps in any order you choose: 

* If you created an effect lasting for a certain 
number of rounds, reduce the number of rounds 
remaining by 1. The effect ends if the duration is 
reduced to 0. For example, if you cast a spell that 
lasts 3 rounds on yourself during your first turn 
of a fight, it would affect you during that turn, 
decrease to 2 rounds of duration at the start of 
your second turn, decrease to 1 round of duration 
at the start of your third turn, and expire at the 
start of your fourth turn. 

* You can use 1 free action or reaction with a trigger 
of *Your turn begins" or something similar. 

* If you're dying, roll a recovery check (page 459). 


* Do anything else that is specified to happen at the 
start of your turn, such as regaining Hit Points 
from fast healing or regeneration. 

The last step of starting your turn is always the same. 

* Regain your 3 actions and 1 reaction. If you 
haven't spent your reaction from your last turn, 
you lose it—you can't *save" actions or reactions 
from one turn to use during the next turn. Some 
abilities or conditions (such as quickened, slowed, 
and stunned) can change how many actions you 
regain and whether you regain your reaction. If you 
lose actions and gain additional actions (such as 
if you're both quickened and slowed), you choose 
which actions to lose. In-depth details on gaining 
and losing actions are on page 622. 


STEP 2: ACT 


You can use actions in any order you wish during your 
turn, but you have to complete one action or activity before 
beginning another; for example, you can’t use a single 
action in the middle of performing a 2-action activity. What 
actions you can use often depend on your class features, 
skills, feats, and items, but there are default actions anyone 
can use, described in Basic Actions below. Some effects 
might prevent you from acting. If you can’t act, you can’t 
use any actions, including reactions and free actions. 

If you begin a 2-action or 3-action activity on your turn, 
you must be able to complete it on your turn. You can’t, 
for example, begin to High Jump using your final action 
on one turn and then complete it as your first action on 
your next turn. 

Once you have spent all 3 of your actions, your turn 
ends (as described in Step 3) and the next creature’s turn 
begins. You can, however, use only some of your actions 
and end your turn early. As soon as your turn ends, you 
lose all your remaining actions, but not your reaction or 
your ability to use free actions. 


STEP 3: END YOUR TURN 


Once you’ve done all the things you want to do with the 
actions you have available, you reach the end of your turn. 
Take the following steps in any order you choose. Play 
then proceeds to the next creature in the initiative order. 

* End any effects that last until the end of your turn. 
For example, spells with a sustained duration end at 
the end of your turn unless you used the Sustain a 
Spell action during your turn to extend them. Some 
effects caused by enemies might also last through a 
certain number of your turns, and you decrease the 
remaining duration by 1 during this step, ending 
the effect if its duration is reduced to 0. 

* If you have a persistent damage condition, you take 
the damage at this point. After you take the damage, 
you can attempt the flat check to end the persistent 
damage. You then attempt any saving throws for 
ongoing afflictions. Many other conditions change 


PLAYING 


 -— 


TRACKING INITIATIVE 
The GM keeps track of the initiative order for an encounter. 
It's usually okay for the players to know this order, since 
they'll see who goes when and be aware of one another's 
results. However, the GM might want to conceal the 
names of adversaries the PCs have yet to identify. 

Once the encounters order is set, it's usually not 
necessary to track the original initiative numbers. The 
GM can create a simple list, use a series of cards or other 
indicators, or use a Pathfinder Combat Pad, which has 
magnetic markers to allow for easily rearranging the order. 


Changing the Initiative Order 
Any method used to track the initiative order needs to be 
flexible because the order can change. A creature can use the 
Delay basic action to change its place in the order, in which 
case you can erase it from the list or pull its marker aside 
until it reenters the initiative order. When a creature gets 
knocked out, its initiative order also changes (see Knocked 
Out and Dying on page 459). Using the Ready basic action 
doesnt change a creatures place in the initiative order, 
though, because the designated action becomes a reaction. 


at the end of your turn, such as the frightened 

condition decreasing in severity. These take 
place after you've taken any persistent damage, 
attempted flat checks to end the persistent damage, 
and attempted saves against any afflictions. 

* You can use 1 free action or reaction with a trigger 
of *Your turn ends" or something similar. 

* Resolve anything else specified to happen at the end 
of your turn. 


BASIC ACTIONS 

Basic actions represent common tasks like moving around, 
attacking, and helping others. As such, every creature can 
use basic actions except in some extreme circumstances, 
and many of those actions are used very frequently. Most 
notably, you'll use Interact, Step, Stride, and Strike a great 
deal. Many feats and other actions call upon you to use 
one of these basic actions or modify them to produce 
different effects. For example, a more complex action 
might let you Stride up to double your Speed instead of 
just up to your Speed, and a large number of activities 
include a Strike. 

Actions that are used less frequently but are still 
available to most creatures are presented in Specialty 
Basic Actions starting on page 472. These typically have 
requirements that not all characters are likely to meet, 
such as wielding a shield or having a burrow Speed. 

In addition to the actions in these two sections, the 
actions for spellcasting can be found on pages 302-305, 
and the actions for using magic items appear on pages 
531—534. 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 
w 


d 


| THE AGE OF 


. LOST OMENS 
XD 

| PLAYING THE 
GAME 


"ORK 


AID > 


Trigger An ally is about to use an action that requires a skill 
check or attack roll. 
Requirements The ally is willing to accept your aid, and you 
have prepared to help (see below). 
You try to help your ally with a task. To use this reaction, you 
must first prepare to help, usually by using an action during 
your turn. You must explain to the GM exactly how you're trying 
to help, and they determine whether you can Aid your ally. 
When you use your Aid reaction, attempt a skill check or 
attack roll of a type decided by the GM. The typical DC is 20, but 
the GM might adjust this DC for particularly hard or easy tasks. 
The GM can add any relevant traits to your preparatory action 
or to your Aid reaction depending on the situation, or even allow 
you to Aid checks other than skill checks and attack rolls. 
Critical Success You grant your ally a +2 circumstance bonus to 
the triggering check. If you're a master with the check you 
attempted, the bonus is +3, and if you're legendary, it's +4. 
Success You grant your ally a +1 circumstance bonus to the 
triggering check. 
Critical Failure Your ally takes a -1 circumstance penalty to the 
triggering check. 


CRAWL*> 


or other impediment imposing any of those conditions on you. 
Attempt a check using your unarmed attack modifier against 
the DC of the effect. This is typically the Athletics DC of a 
creature grabbing you, the Thievery DC of a creature who tied 
you up, the spell DC for a spell effect, or the listed Escape DC 
of an object, hazard, or other impediment. You can attempt 
an Acrobatics or Athletics check instead of using your attack 
modifier if you choose (but this action still has the attack trait). 
Critical Success You get free and remove the grabbed, 
immobilized, and restrained conditions imposed by your 
chosen target. You can then Stride up to 5 feet. 

Success You get free and remove the grabbed, immobilized, 
and restrained conditions imposed by your chosen target. 
Critical Failure You don't get free, and you can't attempt to 

Escape again until your next turn. 


INTERACT 9 
| maniputare | 


You use your hand or hands to manipulate an object or the 
terrain. You can grab an unattended or stored object, open a 
door, or produce some similar effect. You might have to attempt 
a skill check to determine if your Interact action was successful. 


LEAP +> 


Requirements You are prone and your Speed is at least 10 feet. 
You move 5 feet by crawling and continue to stay prone. 


DELAY € 


Trigger Your turn begins. 
You wait for the right moment to act. The rest of your turn doesn't 
happen yet. Instead, you're removed from the initiative order. 
You can return to the initiative order as a free action triggered by 
the end of any other creature's turn. This permanently changes 
your initiative to the new position. You can't use reactions until 
you return to the initiative order. If you Delay an entire round 
without returning to the initiative order, the actions from the 
Delayed turn are lost, your initiative doesnt change, and your 
next turn occurs at your original position in the initiative order. 
When you Delay, any persistent damage or other negative 
effects that normally occur at the start or end of your turn occur 
immediately when you use the Delay action. Any beneficial 
effects that would end at any point during your turn also end. 
The GM might determine that other effects end when you 
Delay as well. Essentially, you can't Delay to avoid negative 
consequences that would happen on your turn or to extend 
beneficial effects that would end on your turn. 


DROP PRONE -9 
[ron] 

You fall prone. 
ESCAPE *> 
n 


You attempt to escape from being grabbed, immobilized, 
or restrained. Choose one creature, object, spell effect, hazard, 


E a careful, short jump. You can Leap up to 10 feet 
horizontally if your Speed is at least 15 feet, or up to 15 feet 
horizontally if your Speed is at least 30 feet. You land in the 
space where your Leap ends (meaning you can typically clear 
a 5-foot gap, or a 10-foot gap if your Speed is 30 feet or more). 

If you Leap vertically, you can move up to 3 feet vertically 
and 5 feet horizontally onto an elevated surface. 

Jumping a greater distance requires using the Athletics skill. 


READY 99 

You prepare to use an action that will occur outside your 
turn. Choose a single action or free action you can use, and 
designate a trigger. Your turn then ends. If the trigger you 
designated occurs before the start of your next turn, you can 
use the chosen action as a reaction (provided you still meet 
the requirements to use it). You can't Ready a free action that 
already has a trigger. 

If you have a multiple attack penalty and your readied action 
is an attack action, your readied attack takes the multiple 
attack penalty you had at the time you used Ready. This is one 
of the few times the multiple attack penalty applies when it's 
not your turn. 


RELEASE € 


Í MANIPULATE | 

You release something you're holding in your hand or hands. 
This might mean dropping an item, removing one hand from 
your weapon while continuing to hold it in another hand, 
releasing a rope suspending a chandelier, or performing a 


similar action. Unlike most manipulate actions, Release does 


not trigger reactions that can be triggered by actions with the 
manipulate trait (such as Attack of Opportunity). 

If you want to prepare to Release something outside of your 
turn, use the Ready activity. 


SEEK > 

You scan an area for signs of creatures or objects. If you're 

looking for creatures, choose an area you're scanning. If 

precision is necessary, the GM can have you select a 30-foot 

cone or a 15-foot burst within line of sight. You might take a 

penalty if you choose an area that's far away. 

If you're using Seek to search for objects (including secret 
doors and hazards), you search up to a 10-foot square adjacent 
to you. The GM might determine you need to Seek as an 
activity, taking more actions or even minutes or hours if you're 
searching a particularly cluttered area. 

The GM attempts a single secret Perception check for you 
and compares the result to the Stealth DCs of any undetected 
or hidden creatures in the area or the DC to detect each 
object in the area (as determined by the GM or by someone 
Concealing the Object). A creature you detect might remain 
hidden, rather than becoming observed, if you're using an 
imprecise sense or if an effect (such as invisibility) prevents 
the subject from being observed. 

Critical Success If you were searching for creatures, any 
undetected or hidden creature you critically succeeded 
against becomes observed by you. If you were searching 
for an object, you learn its location. 

Success If you were searching for creatures, any undetected 
creature you succeeded against becomes hidden from 
you instead of undetected, and any hidden creature you 
succeeded against becomes observed by you. If you were 
searching for an object, you learn its location or get a clue 
to its whereabouts, as determined by the GM. 


SENSE MOTIVE *> 


| CONCENTRATE | SECRET 

You try to tell whether a creature’s behavior is abnormal. 

Choose one creature, and assess it for odd body language, 

signs of nervousness, and other indicators that it might be 

trying to deceive someone. The GM attempts a single secret 

Perception check for you and compares the result to the 

Deception DC of the creature, the DC of a spell affecting the 

creature's mental state, or another appropriate DC determined 

by the GM. You typically cant try to Sense the Motive of the 
same creature again until the situation changes significantly. 

Critical Success You determine the creature's true intentions 
and get a solid idea of any mental magic affecting it. 

Success You can tell whether the creature is behaving normally, 
but you don't know its exact intentions or what magic might 
be affecting it. 

Failure You detect what a deceptive creature wants you to 
believe. If they're not being deceptive, you believe they're 
behaving normally. 

Critical Failure You get a false sense of the creature's intentions. 


PLAYING THE Q 


X 


SPEAKING 
As long as you can act, you can also speak. You don't 
need to spend any type of action to speak, but because a 
round represents 6 seconds of time, you can usually speak 
at most a single sentence or so per round. Special uses 
of speech, such as attempting a Deception skill check to 
Lie, require spending actions and follow their own rules. 
All speech has the auditory trait. If you communicate in 
some way other than speech, other rules might apply. For 
instance, using sign language is visual instead of auditory. 


STAND > EQUIPMENT 

* 

You stand up from prone. : ‘SPELLS 
TEP « E 

E | > THE AGE OF 

Requirements Your Speed is at least 10 feet. OM MENG 


You carefully move 5 feet. Unlike most types of movement, 9.8. 
Stepping doesn't trigger reactions, such as Attacks of Opportunity, 
that can be triggered by move actions or upon leaving or entering 
a square. 

You can't Step into difficult terrain (page 475), and you can't 
Step using a Speed other than your land Speed. 


STRIDE 9 


You move up to your Speed (page 473). 


STRIKE > 
You attack with a weapon you're wielding or with an unarmed 
attack, targeting one creature within your reach (for a 
melee attack) or within range (for a ranged attack). Roll the 
attack roll for the weapon or unarmed attack you are using, and 
compare the result to the target creatures AC to determine the 
effect. See Attack Rolls on page 446 and Damage on page 450 
for details on calculating your attack and damage rolls. 
Critical Success As success, but you deal double damage (page 451). 
Success You deal damage according to the weapon or unarmed 
attack, including any modifiers, bonuses, and penalties you 
have to damage. 


TAKE COVER 99 


Requirements You are benefiting from cover, are near a feature 
that allows you to take cover, or are prone. 

You press yourself against a wall or duck behind an obstacle 
to take better advantage of cover (page 477). If you would 
have standard cover, you instead gain greater cover, which 
provides a *4 circumstance bonus to AC; to Reflex saves 
against area effects; and to Stealth checks to Hide, Sneak, or 
otherwise avoid detection. Otherwise, you gain the benefits of 
standard cover (a +2 circumstance bonus instead). This lasts 
until you move from your current space, use an attack action, 
become unconscious, or end this effect as a free action. 


= wp PICS er ae PETTITT 
j| F CORE RULEBOOK 4 
: ——€———— iar i Y oem " 


SPECIALTY BASIC ACTIONS 


These actions are useful under specific circumstances. Some 
require you to have a special movement type (page 463). 


Critical Failure You continue to fall, and if you've fallen 20 feet 
or more before you use this reaction, you take 10 bludgeoning 
damage from the impact for every 20 feet fallen. 


ARREST A FALL > MOUNT «> 
Trigger You fall. Em 


Requirements You have a fly Speed. 

You attempt an Acrobatics check to slow your fall. The DC is 
typically 15, but it might be higher due to air turbulence or 
other circumstances. 

Success You fall gently, taking no damage from the fall. 


AVERT GAZE +> 


Requirements You are adjacent to a creature that is at least 
one size larger than you and is willing to be your mount. 
You move onto the creature and ride it. If you're already 
mounted, you can instead use this action to dismount, moving 

off the mount into a space adjacent to it. 


POINT OUT +> 


You avert your gaze from danger. You gain a +2 circumstance 
bonus to saves against visual abilities that require you to look 
at a creature or object, such as a medusas petrifying gaze. Your 
gaze remains averted until the start of your next turn. 


BURROW «> 

Requirements You have a burrow Speed. 

You dig your way through dirt, sand, or a similar loose material 
at a rate up to your burrow Speed. You can't burrow through 
rock or other substances denser than dirt unless you have an 
ability that allows you to do so. 


ry 

[c] 

Requirements You have a fly Speed. 

You move through the air up to your fly Speed. Moving 
upward (straight up or diagonally) uses the rules for moving 
through difficult terrain. You can move straight down 10 feet 
for every 5 feet of movement you spend. If you Fly to the 
ground, you don't take falling damage. You can use an action 
to Fly O feet to hover in place. If you're airborne at the end of 
your turn and didn't use a Fly action this round, you fall. 


GRAB AN EDGE > 

Trigger You fall from or past an edge or handhold. 

Requirements Your hands are not tied behind your back or 
otherwise restrained. 

When you fall off or past an edge or other handhold, you can 

try to grab it, potentially stopping your fall. You must succeed 

at a Reflex save, usually at the Climb DC. If you grab the edge 
or handhold, you can then Climb up using Athletics. 

Critical Success You grab the edge or handhold, whether or 
not you have a hand free, typically by using a suitable held 
item to catch yourself (catching a battle axe on a ledge, for 
example). You still take damage from the distance fallen so 
far, but you treat the fall as though it were 30 feet shorter. 

Success If you have at least one hand free, you grab the edge 
or handhold, stopping your fall. You still take damage from 
the distance fallen so far, but you treat the fall as though 
it were 20 feet shorter. If you have no hands free, you 
continue to fall as if you had failed the check. 


ENDE 
Requirements A creature is undetected by one or more of your 
allies but isn't undetected by you. 

You indicate a creature that you can see to one or more allies, 
gesturing in a direction and describing the distance verbally. 
That creature is hidden to your allies, rather than undetected 
(page 466). This works only for allies who can see you and are 
in a position where they could potentially detect the target. If 
your allies can't hear or understand you, they must succeed at 
a Perception check against the creatures Stealth DC or they 
misunderstand and believe the target is in a different location. 


RAISE A SHIELD *> 


Requirements You are wielding a shield. 

You position your shield to protect yourself. When you have 
Raised a Shield, you gain its listed circumstance bonus to AC. 
Your shield remains raised until the start of your next turn. 


ACTIVITIES IN ENCOUNTERS 


Activities that take longer than a turn can't normally be 
performed during an encounter. Spells with a casting time 
of 1 minute or more are a common example of this, as are 
several skill actions. When you commit to an activity during 
your turn in an encounter, you commit to spending all of the 
actions it requires. If the activity gets interrupted partway 
through, you lose all of the actions you would have spent 
on that activity. Activities are described in full on page 461. 


REACTIONS IN ENCOUNTERS 


Your reactions let you respond immediately to what's 
happening around you. The GM determines whether you 
can use reactions before your first turn begins, depending 
on the situation in which the encounter happens. 

Once your first turn begins, you gain your actions and 
reaction. You can use 1 reaction per round. You can use a 
reaction on anyone's turn (including your own), but only 
when its trigger occurs. If you don't use your reaction, you 
lose it at the start of your next turn, though you typically 
then gain a reaction at the start of that turn. 

Some reactions are specifically meant to be used in 
combat and can change how the battle plays out drastically. 


One example of such a reaction is Attack of Opportunity, 
which fighters gain at 1st level. 


ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY 2 

Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action 
or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square 
during a move action it's using. 

You lash out at a foe that leaves an opening. Make a melee Strike 

against the triggering creature. If your attack is a critical hit and 

the trigger was a manipulate action, you disrupt that action. This 

Strike doesn't count toward your multiple attack penalty, and 

your multiple attack penalty doesn't apply to this Strike. 


This reaction lets you make a melee Strike if a creature 
within reach uses a manipulate or move action, makes a 
ranged attack, or leaves a square during a move action. The 
Triggering Moves diagram on page 474 illustrates examples 
of movements that might trigger an Attack of Opportunity 
from a creature without reach and one with reach. 

You'll notice this reaction allows you to use a modified 
basic action, a Strike. This follows the rules on 
subordinate actions found on page 462. 
Because your Attack of Opportunity p 
takes place outside of your turn, 
the attack roll doesn’t incur a 
multiple attack penalty. 


MOVEMENT IN 
ENCOUNTERS 


Your movement during encounter 
mode depends on the actions and other 
abilities you use. Whether you Stride, 
Step, Swim, or Climb, the maximum 
distance you can move is based on your 
Speed. Certain feats or magic items can grant 
you other movement types, allowing you to 
swiftly burrow, climb, fly, or swim (page 463). 
When the rules refer to a “movement cost” or 
“spending movement,” they are describing how A 
many feet of your Speed you must use to £ 
move from one point to another. Normally, 
movement costs 5 feet per square when 
you’re moving on a grid, or it costs the 
number of feet you move if you’re not 
using a grid. However, sometimes it’s harder to move a 
certain distance due to difficult terrain (page 475) or other 
factors. In such a case, you might have to spend a different 
amount of movement to move from one place to another. 
For example, a form of movement might require 10 feet 
of movement to move 1 square, and moving through some 
types of terrain costs an extra 5 feet of movement per square. 


GRID MOVEMENT 


If an encounter involves combat, it’s often a good idea to 
track the movement and relative position of the participants 


yea P. 9: 


ANA 
NS. Cx NA 


PLAYING THE GAME 


using a Pathfinder Flip-Mat, Flip-Tiles, or some other form INTRODUCTION 
of grid to display the terrain, and miniatures to represent 


the combatants. When a character moves on a grid, every 


1-inch square of the play area is 5 feet across in the game e zl o: 
M Me i BACKGROUNDS 
world. Hence, a creature moving in a straight line spends 5 
feet of its movement for every map square traveled. 
Because moving diagonally covers more ground, you CLASSES | 3 
count that movement differently. The first square of 
diagonal movement you make in a turn counts as 5 feet, SKILLS 
but the second counts as 10 feet, and your count thereafter 
alternates between the two. For example, as you move FEATS 
across 4 squares diagonally, you would count 5 feet, then 
10, then 5, and then 10, for a total of 30 feet. You track your. | EQUIPMENT 
total diagonal movement across all your movement during | 
your turn, but reset your count at the end of your turn. i SPELLS 
| 
SIZE, SPACE, AND REACH 4 
: : Fe THE AGE OF 
Creatures and objects of different sizes occupy 
LOST OMENS 


different amounts of space. The sizes and the 
OQ 


PLAYING THE 


spaces they each take up on a grid are listed 
in Table 9-1: Size and Reach (page 474). 


jj /MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
i B PREASURE 


APPENDIX 


= bx 
D MM 


THFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


TRIGGERING MOVES 

1. Valeros can approach position 1 
with the Stride action without 
triggering reactions. 

2. If Valeros approaches this 
way to position 2, he triggers 
reactions from both the 
hobgoblin and the troll. The 
troll has a reach of 10 feet, 
so Valeros triggers reactions 
from both enemies when 
he moves out of the second 

: square and into the third. 

3. If Seoni Strides to position 3, 
she triggers reactions from the 
hobgoblin and the troll. Because 
of its 10-foot reach, the troll 
could use its reaction when 
Seoni left either square. She 
could Step twice to get there to 
avoid triggering reactions, but 
that uses 2 actions instead of 1. 


Table 9-1 also lists the typical reach for creatures of each 
size, for both tall creatures (most bipeds) and long creatures 
(most quadrupeds). See page 455 for more about reach. 

The Space entry lists how many feet on a side a creature's 
space is, so a Large creature fills a 10-foot-by-10-foot 
space (4 squares on the grid). Sometimes part of a creature 
extends beyond its space, such as if a giant octopus is 
grabbing you with its tentacles. In that case, the GM will 
usually allow attacking the extended portion, even if you 
can't reach the main creature. A Small or larger creature or 
object takes up at least 1 square on a grid, and creatures 
of these sizes can't usually share spaces except in situations 
like a character riding a mount. Rules for moving through 
other creatures’ spaces appear below. 


TABLE 9-1: SIZE AND REACH 
Size Space Reach (Tall) Reach (Long) 
Tiny Less than 5 feet O feet 0 feet 
Small 5 feet 5 feet 5 feet 
Medium 5 feet 5 feet 5 feet 
Large 10 feet 10 feet 5 feet 
Huge 15 feet 15 feet 10 feet 
Gargantuan 20 feet or more 20 feet 15 feet 


Multiple Tiny creatures can occupy the same square. 
At least four can fit in a single square, though the GM 
might determine that even more can fit. Tiny creatures can 
occupy a space occupied by a larger creature as well, and 
if their reach is 0 feet, they must do so in order to attack. 


MOVE ACTIONS THAT TRIGGER REACTIONS 


Some reactions and free actions are triggered by a creature 
using an action with the move trait. The most notable 


example is Attack of Opportunity. Actions with the move 
trait can trigger reactions or free actions throughout 
the course of the distance traveled. Each time you exit 
a square (or move 5 feet if not using a grid) within a 
creature’s reach, your movement triggers those reactions 
and free actions (although no more than once per move 
action for a given reacting creature). If you use a move 
action but don’t move out of a square, the trigger instead 
happens at the end of that action or ability. 

Some actions, such as Step, specifically state they don’t 
trigger reactions or free actions based on movement. 


MOVING THROUGH A CREATURE’S SPACE 


You can move through the space of a willing creature. If 
you want to move through an unwilling creature’s space, 
you can Tumble Through that creature’s space using 
Acrobatics. You can’t end your turn in a square occupied 
by another creature, though you can end a move action 
in its square provided that you immediately use another 
move action to leave that square. If two creatures end 
up in the same square by accident, the GM determines 
which one is forced out of the square (or whether one 
falls prone). 


PRONE AND INCAPACITATED CREATURES 
You can share a space with a prone creature if that 


COUNTING MOVEMENT 
Lini decides to Stride. She has a Speed 
of 20 feet. She moves straight south, 
spending 5 feet of her Speed, then 
diagonally, spending another 5 feet. Her 
next diagonal move, because it’s her 
second diagonal of the turn, costs her 10 
feet of movement. She's spent all 20 feet 
of her Speed and ends that Stride. 

She Seeks, and something catches her 
eye to the northeast, so she decides to 
move toward it. However, the crumbled 
stone is difficult terrain, so each square 
costs 5 more feet of Speed. She moves 
diagonally, spending 10 feet of movement 
since this is an odd-numbered diagonal. 
She wants to move northeast again, but 
that would cost her 15 feet (10 feet for 
an even-numbered diagonal and 5 more 
for being difficult terrain). Instead, she 
decides to move directly north. This costs 
her 10 feet, so she's used all 20 feet of 
her Speed and is out of actions. 


creature is willing, unconscious, or dead and if it is your 
size or smaller. The GM might allow you to climb atop 
the corpse or unconscious body of a larger creature in 
some situations. A prone creature can't stand up while 
someone else occupies its space, but it can Crawl to a 
space where it's able to stand, or it can attempt to Shove 
the other creature out of the way. 


In most cases, you can move through the space of a 
creature at least three sizes larger than you (Table 9-1). 
This means a Medium creature can move through the 


space of a Gargantuan creature and a Small creature can 
move through the space of a Huge creature. Likewise, a 
bigger creature can move through the space of a creature 
three sizes smaller than itself or smaller. You still can't 
end your movement in a space occupied by a creature. 
Tiny creatures are an exception. They can move through 
creatures’ spaces and can even end their movement there. 


Because objects aren't as mobile as creatures are, they're 
more likely to fill a space. This means you can't always 
move through their spaces like you might move through 
a space occupied by a creature. You might be able to 
occupy the same square as a statue of your size, but not a 
wide column. The GM determines whether you can move 
into an object's square normally, whether special rules 
apply, or if you are unable to move into the square at all. 


15 feet 


FORCED MOVEMENT 


When an effect forces you to move, or if you start falling, the 
distance you move is defined by the effect that moved you, 
not by your Speed. Because you’re not acting to move, this 
doesn’t trigger reactions that are triggered by movement. 

If forced movement would move you into a space you 
can’t occupy—because objects are in the way or because you 
lack the movement type needed to reach it, for example— 
you stop moving in the last space you can occupy. Usually 
the creature or effect forcing the movement chooses the path 
the victim takes. If you’re pushed or pulled, you can usually 
be moved through hazardous terrain, pushed off a ledge, 
or the like. Abilities that reposition you in some other way 
can’t put you in such dangerous places unless they specify 
otherwise. In all cases, the GM makes the final call if there’s 
doubt on where forced movement can move a creature. 


TERRAIN 


Several types of terrain can complicate your movement by 
slowing you down, damaging you, or endangering you. 


DIFFICULT | IN 

Difficult terrain is any terrain that impedes your movement, 
ranging from particularly rough or unstable surfaces to 
thick ground cover and countless other impediments. 
Moving into a square of difficult terrain (or moving 5 
feet into or within an area of difficult terrain, if you’re not 
using a grid) costs an extra 5 feet of movement. Moving 
into a square of greater difficult terrain instead costs 10 


f INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


EXD 


PLAYING THE 


GAME 
= o 


GAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


AO 


PATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


FLANKING 
1. Valeros and Kyra are flanking the 
ogre because they can draw a line 
to each other that passes through 
opposite sides of the ogre's space. 
The ogre is flat-footed to them, taking 

a -2 circumstance penalty to its AC. 
.Merisiel isn't flanking the ogre 


because she cant draw a line to 
Valeros or Kyra that passes through 


opposite sides of the ogres space, 
and the ogre is not in Seoni's reach. 

. The hobgoblin and ogre flank Seoni, 
since she is within reach for both, and 
they can draw a line between them 
that passes through opposite sides 
of her space. If the ogre didn't have 
10 feet of reach, the two creatures 
wouldnt flank her. 


additional feet of movement. This additional cost is not 
increased when moving diagonally. You can't Step into 
difficult terrain. 

Movement you make while you are jumping ignores the 
terrain you're jumping over. Some abilities (such as flight 
or being incorporeal) allow you to avoid the movement 
reduction from some types of difficult terrain. Certain 
other abilities let you ignore difficult terrain on foot; such 
an ability also allows you to move through greater difficult 
terrain at the normal movement cost as for difficult terrain, 
though it wouldn't let you ignore greater difficult terrain 
unless the ability specifies otherwise. 


\ZARDOUS 
Hazardous terrain damages you whenever you move 
through it. An acid pool and a pit of burning embers are 
both examples of hazardous terrain. The amount and 
type of damage depend on the specific hazardous terrain. 


A narrow surface is so precariously thin that you need to 
Balance (see Acrobatics on page 240) or risk falling. Even 
on a success, you are flat-footed on a narrow surface. 
Each time you are hit by an attack or fail a save on a 
narrow surface, you must succeed at a Reflex save (with 
the same DC as the Acrobatics check to Balance) or fall. 


Uneven ground is an area unsteady enough that you need 


to Balance (see Acrobatics on page 240) or risk falling 
prone and possibly injuring yourself, depending on the 
specifics of the uneven ground. You are flat-footed on 
uneven ground. Each time you are hit by an attack or 
fail a save on uneven ground, you must succeed at a 
Reflex save (with the same DC as the Acrobatics check to 
Balance) or fall prone. 


An incline is an area so steep that you need to Climb 
using the Athletics skill in order to progress upward. 
You’re flat-footed when Climbing an incline. 


FLANKING 


When you and an ally are flanking a foe, it has a harder 
time defending against you. A creature is flat-footed 
(taking a -2 circumstance penalty to AC) to melee attacks 
from creatures that are flanking it. 

To flank a foe, you and your ally must be on opposite 
sides of the creature. A line drawn between the center of 
your space and the center of your ally's space must pass 
through opposite sides or opposite corners of the foe's 
space. Additionally, both you and the ally have to be 
able to act, you must be wielding melee weapons or be 
able to make an unarmed attack, you can't be under any 
effects that prevent you from attacking, and you must 
both have the enemy within reach. If you are wielding 
a reach weapon, you use your reach with that weapon 
for this purpose. 


COVER 

When you’re behind an obstacle that could block 
weapons, guard you against explosions, and make you 
harder to detect, you’re behind cover. Standard cover 
gives you a +2 circumstance bonus to AC, to Reflex saves 
against area effects, and to Stealth checks to Hide, Sneak, 
or otherwise avoid detection. You can increase this to 
greater cover using the Take Cover basic action, increasing 
the circumstance bonus to +4. If cover is especially light, 
typically when it’s provided by a creature, you have lesser 
cover, which grants a +1 circumstance bonus to AC. A 
creature with standard cover or greater cover can attempt 
to use Stealth to Hide, but lesser cover isn’t sufficient. 


Type of Cover Bonus Can Hide 
Lesser +1 to AC No 
Standard +2 to AC, Reflex, Stealth Yes 
Greater +4 to AC, Reflex, Stealth Yes 


Cover is relative, so you might simultaneously have 
cover against one creature and not another. Cover applies 
only if your path to the target is partially blocked. If a 
creature is entirely behind a wall or the like, you don't have 
line of effect (page 457) and typically can't target it at all. 

Usually, the GM can quickly decide whether your target 
has cover. If you're uncertain or need to be more precise, 
draw a line from the center of your space to the center of 
the target's space. If that line passes through any terrain or 
object that would block the effect, the target has standard 


COVER 


1. Valeros and the ogre don't have any cover 
from one another. The line from the center 
of Valeros's space to the center of the ogre's 
space doesn't pass through blocking terrain 
or other creatures. 

2. The ogre and Seoni have lesser cover from 
one another. The line between the centers 
of their spaces doesnt pass through any 
blocking terrain, but does pass through 
Valeros's space. 

3. The ogre and Merisiel have cover from one 
another. The line between the centers of 
their spaces crosses blocking terrain. 

. Kyra and the ogre can barely see one 
another, but have cover from one another 
because the line between the centers of 
their spaces goes through blocking terrain. 
Because theres so much blocking terrain 
in the way, the GM will likely rule this is 
greater cover. 


cover (or greater cover if the obstruction is extreme or the 
target has Taken Cover). If the line passes through a creature 
instead, the target has lesser cover. When measuring cover 
against an area effect, draw the line from the effect's point 
of origin to the center of the creature's space. 

ARG 


If a creature between you and a target is two or more sizes 
larger than both you and your target, that creature's space 
blocks the effect enough to provide standard cover instead 
of lesser cover. The GM might determine that a creature 
doesn't gain cover from terrain that it's significantly larger 
than. For example, a Huge dragon probably wouldn't 
receive any benefit from being behind a 1-foot-wide pillar. 


CIAL GIRCUMSTANCES 

Your GM might allow you to overcome your target’s cover 
in some situations. If you’re right next to an arrow slit, 
you can shoot without penalty, but you have greater cover 
against someone shooting back at you from far away. 
Your GM might let you reduce or negate cover by leaning 
around a corner to shoot or the like. This usually takes an 
action to set up, and the GM might measure cover from an 
edge or corner of your space instead of your center. 


SPECIAL BATTLES 


Sometimes fights occur while the characters are atop 
mounts or when the PCs take to the sky or seas. 


PLAYING THE GAME 


f INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


98. 


PLAYING THE 


GAME 
Se 
BAME 
MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


Oa” 


i. 


TRAET 


[pq tT — o (QI e s e z ^ 
JJATHFIND CORE RULEBOOK ¢ 
ES E S EE ed] 


THREE-DIMENSIONAL COMBAT 

In aerial and aquatic combat, you might need to track 
positioning in three dimensions. For flying creatures, you 
might use one of the following methods: 
* Find platforms to place flying creatures' miniatures on. 
* Setadie next to a creature with the number indicating 

how many squares up in the air it is. 
e Make a stack of dice or tokens, 1 per 5 feet of elevation. 
* Write the elevation next to the monster on the grid. 

In underwater combat, choose a plane to be the 
baseline, typically the waterline, the sea floor, or a 
stationary object you can measure from. 

As with ground-based movement, moving diagonally 
up or down in 3-D space requires counting every other 
diagonal as 10 feet. Measure flanking in all directions— 
creatures above and below an enemy can flank it just as 
effectively as they can from opposite sides. 


MOUNTED COMBAT 


You can ride some creatures into combat. As noted in the 
Mount specialty basic action (page 472), your mount needs 
to be at least one size larger than you and willing. Your 
mount acts on your initiative. You must use the Command 
an Animal action (page 249) to get your mount to spend 
its actions. If you don’t, the animal wastes its actions. If 
you have the Ride general feat, you succeed automatically 
when you Command an Animal that’s your mount. 

For example, if you are mounted on a horse and you 
make three attacks, your horse would remain stationary 
since you didn’t command it. If you instead spent your first 
action to Command an Animal and succeeded, you could 
get your mount to Stride. You could spend your next action 
to attack or to command the horse to attack, but not both. 


Mounten Attacks 
You and your mount fight as a unit. Consequently, you 
share a multiple attack penalty. For example, if you Strike 
and then Command an Animal to have your mount Strike, 
your mount’s attack takes a -5 multiple attack penalty. 
You occupy every square of your mount’s space for the 
purpose of making your attacks. If you were Medium and 
on a Large mount, you could attack a creature on one 
side of your mount, then attack on the opposite side with 
your next action. If you have a longer reach, the distance 
depends partly on the size of your mount. On a Medium 
or smaller mount, use your normal reach. On a Large or 
Huge mount, you can attack any square adjacent to the 
mount if you have 5- or 10-foot reach, or any square 
within 10 feet of the mount (including diagonally) if you 
have 15-foot reach. 


Mounten DEFENSES 

When you’re mounted, attackers can target either you or 
your mount. Anything that affects multiple creatures (such 
as an area) affects both of you as long as you’re both in 


the area. You are in an attacker’s reach or range if any 
square of your mount is within reach or range. Because 
your mount is larger than you and you share its space, you 
have lesser cover against attacks targeting you when you’re 
mounted if the mount would be in the way. 

Because you can’t move your body as freely while you’re 
riding a mount, you take a —2 circumstance penalty to 
Reflex saves while mounted. Additionally, the only move 
action you can use is the Mount action to dismount. 


AERIAL COMBAT 


Many monsters can fly, and PCs can use spells and items 
to gain the ability to fly. Flying creatures have to use the 
Fly action (page 472) to move through the air. Performing 
an especially tricky maneuver—such as trying to reverse 
course 180 degrees or fly through a narrow gap—might 
require using Acrobatics to Maneuver in Flight. Creatures 
might fall from the sky, using the falling rules found on 
page 463. At the GM’s discretion, some ground-based 
actions might not work in the air. For instance, a flying 
creature couldn’t Leap. 


AQUATIC COMBAT 


Use these rules for battles in water or underwater: 

e You’re flat-footed unless you have a swim Speed. 

* You gain resistance 5 to acid and fire. 

* Youtake a 2 circumstance penalty to melee slashing 
or bludgeoning attacks that pass through water. 

* Ranged attacks that deal bludgeoning or slashing 
damage automatically miss if the attacker or target is 
underwater, and piercing ranged attacks made by an 
underwater creature or against an underwater target 
have their range increments halved. 

* You can't cast fire spells or use actions with the fire 
trait underwater. 

* At the GM's discretion, some ground-based actions 
might not work underwater or while floating. 


DROWNING AND SUFFOCATING 
You can hold your breath for a number of rounds equal to 
5 + your Constitution modifier. Reduce your remaining air 
by 1 round at the end of each of your turns, or by 2 if you 
attacked or cast any spells that turn. You also lose 1 round 
worth of air each time you are critically hit or critically fail 
a save against a damaging effect. If you speak (including 
casting spells with verbal components or activating items 
with command components) you lose all remaining air. 
When you run out of air, you fall unconscious and start 
suffocating. You can’t recover from being unconscious and 
must attempt a DC 20 Fortitude save at the end of each of 
your turns. On a failure, you take 1d10 damage, and on a 
critical failure, you die. On each check after the first, the 
DC increases by 5 and the damage by 1d10; these increases 
are cumulative. Once your access to air is restored, you 
stop suffocating and are no longer unconscious (unless 
you're at 0 Hit Points). 


EXPLORATION MODE 


While encounters use rounds for combat, exploration is more free form. The GM determines 
the flow of time, as you could be traveling by horseback across craggy highlands, negotiating 
with merchants, or delving in a dungeon in search of danger and treasure. Exploration lacks 
the immediate danger of encounter mode, but it offers its own challenges. 


c RIC 


Much of exploration mode involves movement and 
roleplaying. You might be traveling from one town to 
another, chatting with a couple of merchants an outpost 
along the way, or maybe having a terse conversation with 
the watchful city guards at your destination. Instead of 
measuring your rate of movement in 5-foot squares every 
round, you measure it in feet or miles per minute, hour, 
or day, using your travel speed. Rather than deciding on 
each action every turn, you'll engage in an exploration 
activity, and you'll typically spend some time every day 
resting and making your daily preparations. 


TRAVEL SPEED 


Depending on how the GM tracks movement, you move 
in feet or miles based on your character's Speed with the 
relevant movement type. Typical rates are on the table below. 


TABLE 9-2: TRAVEL SPEED 


Feet Miles Miles 
Speed per Minute per Hour per Day 
10 feet 100 1 8 
15 feet 150 14/2 12 
20 feet 200 2 16 
25 feet 250 24/2 20 
30 feet 300 3 24 
35 feet 350 34/2 28 
40 feet 400 4 32 
50 feet 500 5 40 
60 feet 600 6 48 


The rates in Table 9-2 assume traveling over flat and clear 
terrain at a determined pace, but one that's not exhausting. 
Moving through difficult terrain halves the listed movement 
rate. Greater difficult terrain reduces the distance traveled to 
one-third the listed amount. If the travel requires a skill check 
to accomplish, such as mountain climbing or swimming, the 
GM might call for a check once per hour using the result 
and the table above to determine your progress. 


EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES 
While you're traveling and exploring, tell the GM what 
you'd generally like to do along the way. If you do nothing 
more than make steady progress toward your goal, you 
move at the full travel speeds given in Table 9-2. 

When you want to do something other than simply 
travel, you describe what you are attempting to do. It 


isn't necessary to go into extreme detail, such as *Using 
my dagger, I nudge the door so I can check for devious 
traps." Instead, *I'm searching the area for hazards" is 
sufficient. The GM finds the best exploration activity to 
match your description and describes the effects of that 
activity. Some exploration activities limit how fast you 
can travel and be effective. 
These are most common exploration activities. 


AVOID NOTICE 

You attempt a Stealth check to avoid notice while traveling 
at half speed. If you have the Swift Sneak feat, you can move 
at full Speed rather than half, but you still can't use another 
exploration activity while you do so. If you have the Legendary 
Sneak feat, you can move at full Speed and use a second 
exploration activity. If you're Avoiding Notice at the start of 
an encounter, you usually roll a Stealth check instead of a 
Perception check both to determine your initiative and to see 
if the enemies notice you (based on their Perception DCs, as 
normal for Sneak, regardless of their initiative check results). 


DEFEND 


You move at half your travel speed with your shield raised. If 
combat breaks out, you gain the benefits of Raising a Shield 
before your first turn begins. 


DETECT MAGIC 


(CONCENTRATE | EXPLORATION 
You cast detect magic at regular intervals. You move at half 
your travel speed or slower. You have no chance of accidentally 
overlooking a magic aura at a travel speed up to 300 feet per 
minute, but must be traveling no more than 150 feet per minute 


to detect magic auras before the party moves into them. 


FOLLOW THE EXPERT 


| aupiTory | CONCENTRATE | EXPLORATION | VISUAL | 
Choose an ally attempting a recurring skill check while exploring, 
such as climbing, or performing a different exploration tactic 
that requires a skill check (like Avoiding Notice). The ally must 
be at least an expert in that skill and must be willing to provide 
assistance. While Following the Expert, you match their tactic 
or attempt similar skill checks. Thanks to your ally’s assistance, 
you can add your level as a proficiency bonus to the associated 
skill check, even if you're untrained. Additionally, you gain 
a circumstance bonus to your skill check based on your ally's 
proficiency (+2 for expert, +3 for master, and +4 for legendary). 


EQUIPMENT 


‘SPELLS 

HE AGE OF 

LOST OMENS 
CA 

| PLAYING THE 


| GAME 
AOG 


= GAME 


= 


ee m ee DII e ae A ieee ees A ame. | 


THFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
————— —— x 


SKILL EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES 
Chapter 4: Skills includes numerous additional exploration 
activities, which are summarized here. 

Borrow an Arcane Spell: You use Arcana to prepare a 
spell from someone else's spellbook (page 241). 

Coerce: You use Intimidation to threaten a creature so 
it does what you want (page 247). 

Cover Tracks: You use Survival to obscure your 
passing (page 252). 

Decipher Writing: You use a suitable skill to understand 
archaic, esoteric, or obscure texts (page 234). 

Gather Information: You use Diplomacy to canvass the 
area to learn about a specific individual or topic (page 246). 

Identify Alchemy: You use Craft and alchemist’s tools 
to identify an alchemical item (page 245). 

Identify Magic: Using a variety of skills, you can learn 
about a magic item, location, or ongoing effect (page 238). 

Impersonate: You use Deception and usually a disguise 
kit to create a disguise (page 245). 

Learn a Spell: You use the skill corresponding to the 
spell's tradition to gain access to a new spell (page 238). 

Make an Impression: You use Diplomacy to make a 
good impression on someone (page 246). 

Repair: With a repair kit and the Crafting skill, you fix 
a damaged item (page 243). 

Sense Direction: You use Survival to get a sense of where 
you are or determine the cardinal directions (page 252). 

Squeeze: Using Acrobatics, you squeeze though very 
tight spaces (page 241). 

Track: You use Survival to find and follow creatures' 
tracks (page 252). 

Treat Wounds: You use Medicine to treat a living 
creatures wounds (page 249). 


HUSTLE 


| EXPLORATION | MOVE | 


You strain yourself to move at double your travel speed. You can 
Hustle only for a number of minutes equal to your Constitution 
modifier x 10 (minimum 10 minutes). If you are in a group that is 
Hustling, use the lowest Constitution modifier among everyone 
to determine how fast the group can Hustle together. 


INVESTIGATE 


| CONCENTRATE | EXPLORATION 


You seek out information about your surroundings while traveling 
at half speed. You use Recall Knowledge as a secret check to 
discover clues among the various things you can see and engage 
with as you journey along. You can use any skill that has a Recall 
Knowledge action while Investigating, but the GM determines 
whether the skill is relevant to the clues you could find. 


REPEAT A SPELL 


Í CONCENTRATE | EXPLORATION | 


You repeatedly cast the same spell while moving at half speed. 
Typically, this spell is a cantrip that you want to have in effect 


in the event a combat breaks out, and it must be one you can 
cast in 2 actions or fewer. In order to prevent fatigue due 
to repeated casting, you'll likely use this activity only when 
something out of the ordinary occurs. 

You can instead use this activity to continue Sustaining a 
Spell or Activation with a sustained duration. Most such spells 
or item effects can be sustained for 10 minutes, though some 
specify they can be sustained for a different duration. 


SCOUT 

You scout ahead and behind the group to watch danger, moving 
at half speed. At the start of the next encounter, every creature in 
your party gains a *1 circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls. 


SEARCH 

You Seek meticulously for hidden doors, concealed hazards, 
and so on. You can usually make an educated guess as to which 
locations are best to check and move at half speed, but if you 
want to be thorough and guarantee you checked everything, you 
need to travel at a Speed of no more than 300 feet per minute, or 
150 feet per minute to ensure you check everything before you 
walk into it. You can always move more slowly while Searching 
to cover the area more thoroughly, and the Expeditious Search 
feat increases these maximum Speeds. If you come across a 
secret door, item, or hazard while Searching, the GM will attempt 
a free secret check to Seek to see if you notice the hidden object 
or hazard. In locations with many objects to search, you have to 
stop and spend significantly longer to search thoroughly. 


REST AND DAILY 
PREPARATIONS 


You perform at your best when you take enough time to 
rest and prepare. Once every 24 hours, you can take a 
period of rest (typically 8 hours), after which you regain 
Hit Points equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum 
1) times your level, and you might recover from or 
improve certain conditions (page 453). Sleeping in armor 
results in poor rest that leaves you fatigued. If you go 
more than 16 hours without resting, you become fatigued 
(you cannot recover from this until you rest at least 6 
continuous hours). 

After you rest, you make your daily preparations, which 
takes around 1 hour. You can prepare only if you've rested, 
and only once per day. Preparing includes the following: 

* Spellcasters regain spell slots, and prepared 

spellcasters choose spells to have available that day. 

* Focus Points, other abilities that refresh during 
your preparations, and abilities that can be used 
only a certain number of times per day, including 
magic item uses, are reset. 

* You don armor and equip weapons and other gear. 

* You invest up to 10 worn magic items to gain their 
benefits for the day. 


DOWNTIME MODE 


Downtime mode is played day-by-day rather than minute-by-minute or scene-by-scene. Usually 
this mode of play occurs when you are in the safety of a settlement, maybe recovering from 


your adventures or studying an artifact you found. 


—— RN IC 


Downtime gives you time to rest fully, engage in crafting 
or a professional endeavor, learn new spells, retrain feats, 
or just have fun. You can sell items acquired during your 
adventures, buy new goods, and perform other activities 
as determined by your feats, your skills, and the settlement 
where you are spending the downtime. 


LONG-TERM REST 

You can spend an entire day and night resting during 
downtime to recover Hit Points equal to your Constitution 
modifier (minimum 1) multiplied by twice your level. 


RETRAINING 

Retraining offers a way to alter some of your character 
choices, which is helpful when you want to take your 
character in a new direction or change decisions that 
didn’t meet your expectations. You can retrain feats, 
skills, and some selectable class features. You can’t 
retrain your ancestry, heritage, background, class, 
or ability scores. You can’t perform other downtime 
activities while retraining. 

Retraining usually requires you to spend time learning 
from a teacher, whether that entails physical training, 
studying at a library, or falling into shared magical 
trances. Your GM determines whether you can get proper 
training or whether something can be retrained at all. In 
some cases, you’ll have to pay your instructor. 

Some abilities can be difficult or impossible to retrain 
(for instance, a sorcerer can retrain their bloodline only in 
extraordinary circumstances). 

When retraining, you generally can’t make choices 
you couldn’t make when you selected the original 
option. For instance, you can’t exchange a 2nd-level 
skill feat for a 4th-level one, or for one that requires 
prerequisites you didn’t meet at the time you took the 
original feat. If you don’t remember whether you met 
the prerequisites at the time, ask your GM to make the 
call. If you cease to meet the prerequisites for an ability 
due to retraining, you can’t use that ability. You might 
need to retrain several abilities in sequence in order to 
get all the abilities you want. 


FEATS 


You can spend a week of downtime retraining to swap out 
one of your feats. Remove the old feat and replace it with 
another of the same type. For example, you could swap a 
skill feat for another skill feat, but not for a wizard feat. 


SKILL DOWNTIME ACTIVITIES 

Chapter 4: Skills includes several downtime activities, 
which are summarized here. 

Craft: Using the Crafting skill, you can create items 
from raw materials (page 244). 

Create Forgery: You forge a document (page 251). 

Earn Income: You earn money, typically using Crafting, 
Lore, or Performance (page 236). 

Subsist: You find food and shelter in the wilderness or 
within a settlement (page 240). 

Treat Disease: You spend time caring for a diseased 
creature in the hope of curing that creature (page 248). 


SKILLS 


You can spend a week of downtime retraining to swap 
out one of your skill increases. Reduce your proficiency 
rank in the skill losing its increase by one step and 
increase your proficiency rank in another skill by one 
step. The new proficiency rank has to be equal to or lower 
than the proficiency rank you traded away. For instance, 
if your bard is a master in Performance and Stealth, and 
an expert in Occultism, you could reduce the character's 
proficiency in Stealth to expert and become a master in 
Occultism, but you couldn't reassign that skill increase 
to become legendary in Performance. Keep track of 
your level when you reassign skill increases; the level 
at which your skill proficiencies changed can influence 
your ability to retrain feats with skill prerequisites. 

You can also spend a week to retrain an initial trained 
skill you gained during character creation. 


CLASS FEATURES 


You can change a class feature that required a choice, 
making a different choice instead. Some, like changing a 
spell in your spell repertoire, take a week. The GM will 
tell you how long it takes to retrain larger choices like a 
druid order or a wizard school—always at least a month. 


OTHER DOWNTIME ACTIVITIES 
Work with your GM if there are other ways you want 
to spend downtime. You might need to pay for your cost 
of living (the prices for this can be found on page 294). 
You might acquire property, manage a business, become 
part of a guild or civic group, curry favor in a large city, 
take command of an army, take on an apprentice, start a 
family, or minister to a flock of the faithful. 


EQUIPMENT 
pin 
, ‘SPELLS 
- THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 
9.8. 
| PLAYING THE 
| GAME 


OG 


| B TREASURE 


on " 
APPEND! 


--—. A 


PATHFINDER) cone Ruireoon } 


| 
‘ i y 


CHAPTER 10: GAME MASTERING 


As Game Master, you run each session of Pathfinder, providing the link between the players 
and the world of the game. It’s up to you to set the scene as the player characters battle 
monsters, interact with other people, and explore the world. 


i i aggr—__ i ———— 


When you take on the role of Game Master, you’ll have 
the rewarding job of crafting fun experiences for a group 
of your friends. Your responsibilities include... 

e Telling the story of the group's adventures in a 
compelling and consistent way. 

* Fleshing out the world in which the game takes 
place, emphasizing the fantastical while grounding 
it enough in the real world to feel believable. 

* Entertaining the players and yourself with novel 
concepts, and rewarding creative ideas with 
interesting outcomes. 

* Preparing for game sessions by building or studying 
adventures and creating characters and plots. 

* Improvising the reactions of nonplayer characters 
and other forces in the world as the players do 
unexpected things. 

* Making rules decisions to ensure fairness and keep 
the game moving forward. 


This chapter provides the tools you need to shoulder 
those responsibilities. The following sections break 
down the various components of a campaign, discuss the 
different modes of play and how to set DCs for the tasks 
the PCs attempt, provide different ways of rewarding 
player characters, and describe aspects of the environment 
that might affect an adventuring party. 


PLANNING A CAMPAIGN 

A Pathfinder game is typically structured as a campaign—a 
serialized story that focuses on a single party of characters. 
A campaign is subdivided into multiple adventures, 
smaller stories that involve exploration and interaction 
with nonplayer characters. A single adventure represents a 
complete story that might be connected to the larger arc of 
a campaign. Playing an adventure spans one or more game 
sessions—gatherings where the group plays a part of the 
adventure over the course of several hours. 

A campaign provides the overall structure for your 
Pathfinder game. As you prepare for your campaign, you'll 
establish its scope and themes, which you'll then reinforce 
in the adventures and scenes that take place within it. 


CAMPAIGN LENGTH 


The length of a campaign can range from a few sessions 
to many years. Two main factors determine campaign 
length: how much time you need to complete the story, 
and how much time players want to devote to the game. 


COLLABORATION DURING PLAY 
As Game Master, you have the final say on how the world 
and rules function, and how nonplayer characters act. 
This rules purpose is to make the game run smoothly, 
with one guiding hand ensuring consistency. It's not 
intended to make one player into a dictator over the rest 
of the group. Collaboration is vital to roleplaying games! 

How you implement collaboration in a game depends 
on what your players are interested in. In some groups, 
players enjoy adding details to the world and to nonplayer 
characters. In others, players want to feel like the world 
is outside their control, and the only decisions they get to 
make are those made by their own characters. Both are 
fun and acceptable ways to play. 

You are encouraged to collect input from your players 
before you start, asking what storytelling genres they'd 
like to emphasize, which areas of the world they want to 
play in, the types of enemies they'd like to face, or which 
published adventure they want to play. A good campaign 
includes some back-and-forth at the beginning as the 
players figure out what characters they want to play and 
you figure out what sort of adventure to run. The results 
can range from building an adventure entirely to fit the 
characters to choosing a specific published adventure, 
having the players make their characters, and then just 
adapting the beginning of that adventure so that all the 
player characters have a reason to be involved. 

As you play, opportunities to collaborate will occur 
again and again. When players throw out suggestions 
or come up with specific theories about the events of 
the campaign, they're telling you what they'd like to 
see in the game. Try to find ways to incorporate their 
suggestions, but with enough of a twist that each still 
includes something unexpected. 


A single session, or a “one-shot,” is great if your group 
is trying out Pathfinder or wants to play a specific short 
adventure. This requires a smaller time commitment but 
requires the GM to present the events of the game in a way 
that is immediately engaging, since there's less opportunity 
for the players to become invested in the story or setting. 

If you want to play through a longer campaign, you'll 
need to add some story elements that speak directly to the 
characters in your game rather than just to the events of 
the adventure. In other words, the characters should have 
individual goals in addition to the group's overall goals. 


LOST OMENS 


i PLAYING THE 
. BAME 


' aS | 


PF 


You can estimate how long a campaign will take by 
looking at the amount of time you actually have to play, or 
the number of character levels you intend the characters 
to advance. It typically takes three to four sessions for a 
group to level up. Since you'll probably cancel sessions 
on occasion, playing once a week for a year results in 
roughly a 14-level campaign, playing every 2 weeks for a 
year gives you an 8-level campaign, and playing monthly 
allows for a 5-level campaign. If you play only once a 
month, you might consider holding longer sessions and 
using fast advancement (page 509). 

It's entirely okay to have a campaign with an indefinite 
length. Many groups play through one adventure and 
then decide to take on another. If you run an indefinite 
campaign, however, avoid ongoing plots that you can't 
satisfactorily end if the campaign comes to a close after 
the next adventure. If you introduce an overwhelmingly 
powerful villain who's crucial to the story but can't be 
stopped until the player characters are 15th level, ending 
the campaign at 8th level will feel anticlimactic. 

It pays to be conservative when estimating your 
campaign length and scope. It's always tempting to run a 
20-level epic campaign with complex, interwoven plots, 
but such games can fall apart long before the end if your 
group can play only once a month and the players have 
other responsibilities. 


Expecren Duration 
Not every campaign ends at the same point. Some 
campaigns go all the way to 20th level, ending after the 
player characters attain the height of power and confront 
the greatest threats any mortal could face. Others end at 
a lower level, after the group takes down a major villain 
or solves a crucial problem. And still other campaigns 
end when players become unable to attend or decide its a 
good time to stop playing. 

You should have an end point in mind when you start 
a campaign. Still, you have to be flexible, since you're 
telling the story alongside other players, and your initial 
expectations for the campaign may be proven incorrect. 
When you think you're heading toward a satisfying 
conclusion, it's useful to check in with the other players. 
You might say, *I think we have about two sessions left. 
Does that work for everyone? Is there any unfinished 
business you want to take care of?" This lets you gauge 
whether your assumptions match up with the rest of the 
group—and make any necessary adjustments. 


THEMES 


The themes you choose for your campaign are what 
distinguish it from other campaigns. They include the 
major dramatic questions of your story and the repeated 
use of certain environments or creatures, and they can 


also include embracing a genre beyond traditional high 
fantasy. The themes you choose for your campaign also 
suggest storyline elements you might use. 

A storyline’s themes usually relate to the backstories, 
motivations, and flaws of the player characters and villains. 
For example, if you’ve chosen revenge as one of the themes 
of your game, you might introduce a villain whose quest 
for revenge tears his life apart and causes tragic harm 
to those around him. If one of the player characters is a 
chaotic good believer in liberty and freedom, you might 
engage that character by pitting the group against slavers. 
Or, you might choose a theme of love, leading to nonplayer 
characters involved in doomed romances, seeking to regain 
lovers they have lost, or courting the player characters. 

Using similar locations and related creatures helps you 
form connections between disparate adventures. The 
players feel like their characters are becoming experts 
negotiating with giants, navigating seaways, battling 
devils, exploring the planes, or dealing with whatever 
the recurring elements are. For example, you might have 
the players explore a frozen tundra early on, then later 
travel to an icy plane filled with more difficult challenges 
that can be overcome using knowledge they’ve previously 
developed. Likewise, hobgoblin soldiers may be tough 
enemies for your group at low levels, but as the PCs attain 
higher levels and the hobgoblins become mere minions of 
another creature, the players feel a sense of progression. 

Pathfinder is a fantasy adventure game, but you can shift 
your campaign to include elements of other fictional genres. 
You might want to infuse your game a with a sense of horror, 
reduce the amount of magic and use slow advancement 
(page 509) to make it a tale of sword and sorcery, or turn 
magic into technology for a steampunk setting. 


A WELCOMING ENVIRONMENT 


The role of Game Master comes with the responsibility of 
ensuring you and the rest of the players have a rewarding, 
fun time during the game. Games can deal with difficult 
subjects and have stressful moments, but fundamentally 
Pathfinder is a leisure activity. It can remain so only if the 
players follow the social contract and respect one another. 

Players with physical or mental disabilities might find 
themselves more challenged than abled players. Work 
with your players to ensure they have the resources 
and support they need. Additionally, be on the lookout 
for behavior that’s inappropriate, whether intentional 
or inadvertent, and pay careful attention to players’ 
body language during the game. If you notice a player 
becoming uncomfortable, you are empowered to pause 
the game, take it in a new direction, privately check in 
with your players during or after the session, or take any 
other action you think is appropriate. 

If a player tells you they’re uncomfortable with 
something in the game, whether it’s content you’ve 
presented as the GM or another player’s or PC’s actions, 
listen carefully to that player and take steps to ensure 


GV 


gomme Lr me mi E 


D GAME MASTERIN 


ee E es 


TOOLS FOR RESPONSIBLE PLAY 
Consent and comfort are important topics for roleplaying 
games, and many designers have created techniques to 
help facilitate responsible play. Some methods you can use 
are lines and veils, developed by Ron Edwards, and the 
X-Card, developed by John Stavropoulos. 


Lines and Veils 
The terms "line" and "veil" can give your table a common 
vocabulary for the concepts described in this section. A 
line is a hard limit to the actions players might take, such 
as "We're drawing a line at torture." The group agrees not 
to cross a line and omits that content from the game. 

A veil indicates something that shouldn't be described 
in detail. The scene fades to black for a veil, or the group 
moves on to discuss a different topic, though whatever the 
veil is drawn across still happens. For example, you might 
say, We'll draw a veil across the scene as those characters 
head into the bedroom.” 

You might come up with some lines and veils in advance, 
but then find more as play continues. 


The X-Card 

Draw an “X” on a card, and you've got an X-Card. Place it on 
the table at the start of the session and describe its use to 
the players: any player can silently reject content they find 
upsetting by tapping the X-Card; whoever's speaking then 
rewinds a bit and continues on, excising the objectionable 
content. As with setting the basic guidelines for your 
campaign, there are no questions asked, no judgment, and 
no argument when someone invokes the X-Card. You can, 
however, ask for clarification if you need it, such as "How far 
back should | rewind this?" Some groups instead make an 
X with their hands, say "Let's X that out,” or use some other 
method. Either way, follow up with the player privately, 
after the game, to see if the guidelines need to be revised. 
You can find more details at tinyurl.com/x-card-rpg. 


they can once again have fun during your game. If you're 
preparing prewritten material and you find a character 
or a situation inappropriate, you are fully empowered 
to change any details as you see fit. You also have the 
authority (and responsibility) to ask players to change 
their behavior—or even leave the table—if what they're 
doing is unacceptable or makes others feel uncomfortable. 
Its never appropriate to make the person who is 
uncomfortable responsible for resolving a problem. It's 
okay if mistakes happen. What's important is how you 
respond and move forward. 

Gaming is for everyone. Never let those acting in bad 
faith undermine your game or exclude other players. Your 
efforts are part of the long-term process of making games 
and game culture welcoming to all. Working together, we 
can build a community where players of all identities and 
experiences feel safe. 


p —— 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 


vie 


LU 
| THE AGE OF 


LOST OMENS 


i PLAYING THE 
GAME 


9.8. 


GAME 


| MASTERING 
3 XJ 


— B TREASURE 


ie 
rn 


s 


n 
if 


= 


PPENDIX 


N R) CORE RULEBOOK & 
OeuecTIONABLE CONTENT 


Before a campaign begins, check in with your players— 
as a group or individually—to find out what types of 
content they want to allow in the game, and which topics 
they would prefer to avoid. Because the story unfolds in 
real time, it’s essential that you discuss these topics before 
the game starts. These discussions are intended to keep 
players safe, and so it’s not okay to ask why someone 
wants a type of content banned. If someone wants it 
banned, ban it—no questions asked. 

It can help to start with a rating, like those used for 
movies or video games. Pathfinder games often include 
violence and cruelty. What’s the limit on how graphically 
these concepts should be described? Can players swear at 
the table? Does anyone have phobias they don’t want to 
appear in the game, such as spiders or body horror? 

After you figure out the limits on objectionable content, 
you have four important tasks: 

* Clearly convey these limits to the other players. 

* Ensure you and the players abide by the boundaries. 

* Actimmediately if someone becomes uncomfortable 
about content during a session, even if it wasn't 
already banned in a prior discussion. Once the issue 
is resolved, move on. 

* Resolve the issue if any player deliberately pushes 
these boundaries, tries to find loopholes, tries to 
renegotiate the limits, or belittles people for having 
a different tolerance to objectionable content. 


THE PATHFINDER BASELINE 

You might find that your players don’t have much to say 
on the topic of objectionable content, and just assume that 
general societal mores will keep the most uncomfortable 
topics out of the game. That’s not always enough, as that 
approach relies on shared assumptions that aren’t always 
accurate. The following is a set of basic assumptions that 
works for many groups, which you can modify to fit your 
preferences and those of the other players. 

* Bloodshed, injuries, and even dismemberment 
might be described. However, excessive descriptions 
of gore and cruelty should be avoided. 

* Romantic and sexual relationships can happen in 
the game, but players should avoid being overly 
suggestive. happens 
Because attempts at initiating a relationship 


Sex always “off-screen.” 
between player characters can be uncomfortably 
similar to one player hitting on another, this should 
generally be avoided (and is entirely inappropriate 
when playing with strangers). 

* Avoid excessively gross or scatological descriptions. 

The following acts should never be performed by 
player characters: 

* Torture 

* Rape, nonconsensual sexual contact, or sexual threats 

* Harm to children, including sexual abuse 

* Owning slaves or profiting from the slave trade 


* Reprehensible uses of mind-control magic 
Villains might engage in such acts, but they won't happen 
*on-screen" or won't be described in detail. Many groups 
choose to not have villains engage in these activities at all, 
keeping these reprehensible acts out of mind entirely. 


SOCIAL SPLASH DAMAGE 

As important as it is to take care of yourself and the other 
players in your game, be mindful of your group’s impact 
on the other people around you. If you’re playing in a 
space that’s not your own, respect your hosts. If you’re 
playing in public, consider the comfort of the people 
around you, not just what your group is comfortable with. 
It’s easy to get caught up in a game, as we get sucked into 
the microcosm of an imagined world, but don’t ignore the 
real world around you. Be aware when you’re making 
too much noise, leaving a mess, alarming passersby with 
graphic descriptions of violence, or even just giving the 
cold shoulder to curious spectators witnessing RPG play 
for the first time. 


CHARACTER CREATION 


At the outset of a new campaign, the players will create 
new player characters. Part of that process involves you 
introducing what the campaign will be about and what 
types of characters are most appropriate. Work with the 
players to determine which rule options are available. The 
safest options are the common choices from the Pathfinder 
Core Rulebook. If players want to use common options 
from other books or uncommon or rare options, through 
play, review those options to see if any of them conflict 
with the style of campaign you have in mind or might 
present strange surprises down the road. It’s usually best to 
allow new options, but there’s no obligation to do so. Be as 
open as you’re comfortable with. 


PREPARING AN ADVENTURE 


An adventure is a self-contained collection of story 
elements, characters, and settings that become the basis 
for the story you and the other players tell. Think of 
the adventure as an outline for your own story. You'll 
have major beats you want to include, some consistent 
characters, and themes you want to convey, but all sorts 
of things can change during the process of turning the 
outline into a completed story. 

You might use a published adventure from Paizo or 
another company, or you might construct your own 
adventure as you prepare for your game sessions. 


PUBLISHED ADVENTURES 


Prewritten adventures include background information 
and nonplayer characters needed for the story, plus all the 
locations, maps, and monster groups necessary for both 
exploration and encounters. Prewritten adventures can 
speed up your preparation, since you can simply read the 


relevant sections of the adventure before a game, and you 
don’t have to create everything from scratch. A published 
adventure already includes the expected amount of 
encounters and treasure, and you can find adventures built 
for different character levels to match your group. Reading 
a published adventure or running one as your first game 
can help you see how adventures are structured, which 
makes it easier to write one later if you choose. 

Though a published adventure is prewritten, it’s not 
set in stone. Changing the details of an adventure to suit 
your group isn’t just acceptable, it’s preferred! Use the 
backstories and predilections of the player characters to 
inform how you change the adventure. This can mean 
altering adversaries so they’re linked to the player 
characters, changing the setting to a place some of the 
player characters are from, or excising particular scenes 
if you know they won’t appeal to your players. 


CREATING ADVENTURES 


Building your own adventure is much more challenging 
than using a published one, but it lets you express yourself, 
be even more creative, and tailor the game directly to the 
players and their characters. Later sections in this chapter 
include guidelines for building and running encounters, 
placing treasure, and setting appropriately difficult 
challenges, all to help you construct your own adventures. 
Adventure plotting can start at many different points. 
You might begin with a particular antagonist, then 
construct an adventure that fits that villain’s theme and 
leads the group to them. Alternatively, you could start with 
an interesting location for exploration, then populate it 
with adversaries and challenges appropriate to the setting. 


Locations 

Memorable settings that include mysterious and fantastical 
locations for players to visit can elicit the players’ curiosity. 
Exploring each location should be a treat in itself, not 
just a chore the players must complete to get from one 
fight to the next. As you create a locale, picture it in your 
mind’s eye and write down minor details you can include 
as you narrate the game. Describing decorations, natural 
landmarks, wildlife, peculiar smells, and even temperature 
changes make a place feel more real. 

Beyond monsters and loot, your locations can include 
environment-based challenges, from environmental 
conditions like blizzards to puzzles, traps, or other hazards. 
These challenges should suit your adventure’s location: 
walls of brambles in a castle ruin overrun with vegetation, 
pools of acid in a cursed swamp, or magical traps in the 
tomb of a paranoid wizard. Rules for environments appear 
on page 512, and those for hazards start on page 520. 


ENCOUNTERS 

A robust set of encounters forms the backbone of your 
adventure. Encounters often feature combat with other 
creatures, but they can also include hazards, or you might 


TRG 0. den a OT ES ne 


GAME MASTERING 


Se ows 


CHARACTERS WITH DISABILITIES 
A player might want to create a character with a disability, 
or their character might end up with a disability over 
the course of play. Work with the player to find ways to 
respectfully represent the disability. Conditions such as 
blinded and deafened arent a good fit for a character 
who has been living with a disability long-term. Here are 
suggestions for rules you might use for PCs with disabilities. 


Blindness or Impaired Vision 

A blind character cant detect anything using vision, 
critically fails Perception checks requiring sight, is immune 
to visual effects, and can't be blinded or dazzled. You might 
give this character the Blind-Fight feat (page 149) for free. 

A character with impaired vision might take a -2 to -4 
penalty to vision-based Perception checks. Spectacles or 
other corrective devices might reduce or remove this. 


Deafness or Being Hard of Hearing 

A deaf character cant detect anything using hearing, 
critically fails Perception checks that require hearing, and is 
immune to auditory effects. They have enough practice to 
supply verbal components for casting spells and command 
components for activating magic items, but if they perform 
an action they're not accustomed to that involves auditory 
elements, they must succeed at a DC 5 flat check or the 
action is lost. It's best to give them the Sign Language feat 
for free, and you might give them Read Lips as well (page 
266 and 265). You might give one or more other characters 
in the group Sign Language for free as well. 

A hard-of-hearing character might take a -2 to -4 
penalty to Perception checks that are hearing-based. 
Corrective devices for hearing are less common than 
spectacles are in a typical Pathfinder world. 


Missing Limb 
Some magic items require certain limbs or other body parts. 
It's fine to allow an alternative form of the item, turning 
boots into bracers for a character without legs, for example. 

A character with a missing hand or arm might need 
to spend 2 actions to Interact with an item that requires 
two hands, or otherwise compensate. Using a two-handed 
weapon is not possible. A character can acquire a 
prosthetic hand or arm to compensate. 

Someone missing a foot or leg might take a small 
penalty to Speed, but can typically acquire a prosthetic 
to compensate. If they have no legs, they might use a 
wheelchair, a dependable mount, or levitation or flight magic. 


Mental Illness and Chronic Illness 
Some disabilities, such as mental illness and chronic 
illnesses, are best left to the player to roleplay. Mental illness 
is an especially fraught topic, with a history of insensitive 
portrayal. Be careful about the intentions of the player and 
the impact the presentation might have on other players. 


- THE AGE OF 
' LOST OMENS 


USING RARITY AND ACCESS 

The rarity system has two purposes: to convey how 
common or rare certain spells, creatures, or items are in 
the game world, and to give you an easy tool to control 
the complexity of your game. Uncommon and rare options 
aren't more powerful than other options of their level, but 
they introduce complications for certain types of stories, 
or are less common in the world. For instance, it might 
be more challenging to run a mystery adventure when a 
player can cast an uncommon spell such as detect evil. 

At the start of the campaign, communicate your 
preferred expectations on rarity to the players. Unless 
you decide otherwise, the players can choose from any 
common options they qualify for, plus any uncommon 
options granted by their character choices—primarily 
their ancestry and class. By default, a character who 
tries hard enough might eventually find an uncommon 
option, whereas a rare option is always a special reward. 
Beyond that baseline, you can grant access as freely as 
you want; some GMs open up all uncommon and rare 
options universally. If you're not sure, just look over any 
uncommon or rare elements before you include them as 
rewards or otherwise allow a player to acquire them. 


Rewards 

You can use uncommon and rare rules elements to 
reward characters. These still have the same value and 
approximate power as any other treasure of the same 
Price, but they're just a bit more special because they hail 
from distant lands or have unusual or surprising abilities. 
Items are the most likely candidates for uncommon or rare 
rewards, but an NPC might teach an uncommon or rare 
spell to a PC in gratitude or to help the party prepare for 
a certain adversary. You can also improvise extra benefits 
based around uncommon or rare items. For instance, if 
a PC gains a rare plant with occult uses, you might also 
decide that the PC should temporarily get more money if 
they use it while Earning Income using Herbalism Lore, 
because it enables them to produce novel poultices. 


Different Locations 

The rarities in this book assume you're playing in the 
Inner Sea region of Golarion, where most Pathfinder 
games are set. These rarities are also suitable for most 
western medieval fantasy games. However, you might 
want to alter the rarities for a campaign set in another 
location on Golarion (detailed in Chapter 8), to emphasize 
a non-human culture, or to play in a fantasy setting with 
different roots, like a wuxia game based on Chinese 
culture. These changes most often affect basic items. If 
you start your campaign in a dwarven stronghold, for 
example, you might make all the weapons with the dwarf 
trait common. You should feel free to adjust rarities to 
suit your campaign's theme, but if you do, you should 
share your changes with your group. 


create social encounters in which characters duel only 
with words. The rules for building encounters appropriate 
to your group's level begin below. 

Some adventures have a clear and direct progression, 
with encounters occurring at specific times or in a specific 
order. Others, such as a dungeon filled with interconnected 
rooms the group can investigate in any order, are 
nonlinear, and the group can face encounters in any 
order—or even avoid them entirely. Most adventures are 
somewhere in between, with some keystone encounters 
you know the characters will need to contend with, but 
others that are optional. 


TREASURE 

Your adventure should give out an amount of treasure 
that's appropriate to the characters’ level. The guidelines 
for assigning treasure are on page 508. You can dole out 
treasure in all kinds of ways. Treasure could be items carried 
by an adversary, rewards from a patron for completing a 
mission, or a classic pile of coins and items inside a wooden 
chest guarded by a monster. It's best to spread treasure 
throughout an adventure rather than stockpiled in a single 
hoard. This gives the players incremental rewards, letting 
their characters advance in frequent small steps rather than 
giant leaps separated by many hours of play. 


BUILDING ENCOUNTERS 


The most common type of encounter is a combat 
encounter, where the PCs face other creatures. Combat 
encounters are strictly governed by rules; the guidelines 
that follow will help you build combat encounters that 
pose appropriate challenges for your group. Building 
hazard encounters works the same way. Social encounters 
are more free-form, and are up to you as the GM to design. 

To build a combat encounter, first decide how the 
encounter fits in the adventure as a whole. Then, estimate 
how much of a threat you want the encounter to pose, 
using one of five categories below. 

Trivial-threat encounters are so easy that the 
characters have essentially no chance of losing; they 
shouldn't even need to spend significant resources unless 
they are particularly wasteful. These encounters work 
best as warm-ups, palate cleansers, or reminders of how 
awesome the characters are. A trivial-threat encounter 
can still be fun to play, so don't ignore them just because 
of the lack of threat. 

Low-threat encounters present a veneer of difficulty 
and typically use some of the party's resources. However, 
it would be rare or the result of very poor tactics for the 
entire party to be seriously threatened. 

Moderate-threat encounters are a serious challenge 
to the characters, though unlikely to overpower them 
completely. Characters usually need to use sound tactics 
and manage their resources wisely to come out of a 
moderate-threat encounter ready to continue on and face 
a harder challenge without resting. 


Severe-threat encounters are the hardest encounters 
most groups of characters can consistently defeat. These 
encounters are most appropriate for important moments in 
your story, such as confronting a final boss. Bad luck, poor 
tactics, or a lack of resources due to prior encounters can 
easily turn a severe-threat encounter against the characters, 
and a wise group keeps the option to disengage open. 

Extreme-threat encounters are so dangerous that 
they are likely to be an even match for the characters, 
particularly if the characters are low on resources. This 
makes them too challenging for most uses. An extreme- 
threat encounter might be appropriate for a fully rested 
group of characters that can go all-out, for the climactic 
encounter at the end of an entire campaign, or for a group 
of veteran players using advanced tactics and teamwork. 


XP Buoset 


Once you’ve selected a threat level, it’s time to build the 
encounter. You have an XP budget based on the threat, 
and each creature costs some of that budget. Start with 
the monsters or NPCs that are most important to the 
encounter, then decide how you want to use the rest 
of your XP budget. Many encounters won’t match the 
XP budget exactly, but they should come close. The XP 
budget is based on a group of four characters. If your 
group is larger or smaller, see Different Party Sizes below. 


Cyoosine CREATURES 
In all but the most unusual circumstances, you'll select 
creatures for your encounter that range from 4 levels 
lower than the PCs' level to 4 levels higher (see Table 
10-2: Creature XP and Role). Each creature has a part 
to play in your encounter, from a lowly lackey to a boss 
so mighty it could defeat the entire party single-handedly. 
Each creature costs some of the XP from your XP 
budget for the encounter, based on its level compared to 
the levels of the characters in your party. For instance, 
if the PCs are 5th level, a 2nd-level creature is a *party 
level — 3” creature, a lackey appropriate for a low- 
to-moderate-threat encounter, and it costs 15 XP in an 
encounter's XP budget. Party level is explained in detail 
on page 508. 


DirreneNT Party Sizes 
For each additional character in the party beyond the 
fourth, increase your XP budget by the amount shown 
in the Character Adjustment value for your encounter in 
Table 10-1: Encounter Budget. If you have fewer than 
four characters, use the same process in reverse: for each 
missing character, remove that amount of XP from your 
XP budget. Note that if you adjust your XP budget to 
account for party size, the XP awards for the encounter 
don’t change—you’ll always award the amount of XP 
listed for a group of four characters. 

It’s best to use the XP increase from more characters to 
add more enemies or hazards, and the XP decrease from 


TABLE 10-1: ENCOUNTER BUDGET 


Threat XP Budget Character Adjustment 
Trivial AO or less 10 or less 

Low 60 15 
Moderate 80 20 

Severe 120 30 

Extreme 160 40 


TABLE 10-2: CREATURE XP AND ROLE 
Party level- 4 10  Low-threat lackey 
Party level- 3 15 Low- or moderate-threat lackey 
Party level- 2 20 Any lackey or standard creature 
Party level- 1 30 Any standard creature 
Party level 40 Any standard creature or low-threat 
boss 
Low- or moderate-threat boss 
Moderate- or severe-threat boss 
Severe- or extreme-threat boss 
Extreme-threat solo boss 


Party level - 1 60 
Party level - 2 80 
Party level + 3 120 
Party level + 4 160 


fewer characters to subtract enemies and hazards, rather 
than making one enemy tougher or weaker. Encounters 
are typically more satisfying if the number of enemy 
creatures is fairly close to the number of player characters. 


RUNNING A GAME SESSION 

A campaign happens over a series of sessions. Each session 
is usually several hours long, with multiple encounters, 
some exploration, and possibly downtime. Your session 
can be compared to an episode of a TV show; it should 
include some twists, turns, and changes, and end leaving 
people excited about what comes next. 


PLANNING A SESSION 


One of the greatest challenges in gaming is scheduling 
a time for everyone to get together and play. Often, this 
responsibility falls on you as the GM, since you're the one 
who has to prepare your game between sessions. Many 
games have a set schedule, such as once per week, once 
every 2. weeks, or once per month. The less frequently 
your group meets, the better notes and recaps you'll need 
to keep everyone on the same page. 

Plan a time for everybody to arrive, and also try to set 
a time when playing the game will begin. This can make 
it easier for everyone to finish chatting, catching up, and 
eating in a timely fashion so you can start playing the 
game. Having an end time in mind is also fairly important. 
A typical game session lasts about 4 hours, though some 
groups hold 2-hour sessions or play marathon games. 
Less than 2 hours usually isn't enough time to get much 
done in most Pathfinder campaigns. If your session will 
be longer than 2. hours, plan out some 15-minute breaks 
(in addition to bathroom and beverage breaks, which 
players can take as needed). 


‘EQUIPMENT 
FE 


SPELLS 
Gt 


sil 


. THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 
GAME 
(OC 
GAME 

| MASTERING 


AY 


STARTING A SESSION 


Once everyone is ready, get everyone’s attention and 


cover the following topics. These are in a rough order 
that you can change based on your group’s style or a 
session’s needs. 

* Recap what happened during the previous sessions. 

* Establish where the characters are at the beginning 
of this session. Have they been resting since their 
last challenge? Are they in a hallway, preparing 
to raid the next room of a dungeon? Tell players 
whether their characters had time to rest or 
recover since the last session. 

* Remind players that they each have 1 Hero Point 
at the start of the session (page 507). 

* Establish goals. The players should have an idea 
of what they want to do next. Reestablish any 
goals the group already had, then let the players 
weigh in on whether these goals still apply, and 
on whether there's anything else they hope 
to accomplish in this session. 

* Commence adventuring! Decide which mode of 
play you're going to start in, then lead off with a 
verbal prompt to get the action started. You might 
aska question related to a particular character, have 
everyone immediately roll initiative as a monster 
attacks, or briefly describe the environment and 
sensations that surround the player characters, 
allowing them to react. 


RUNNING A SESSION 


During a session, you're in charge of keeping the game's 
action moving, managing the different modes of play, 
fielding questions, and making rules decisions. You'll also 
want to keep a rough eye on the time, so you can end 
when most convenient for the group. 

You're the interface between the rules and the 
imagined world you and the other players share. They 
will ask you questions, and they'll act based on their own 
assumptions. It's up to you to establish what's true in the 
world, but you don't do this unilaterally. You're informed 
by the setting's backstory, your preparations, and the 
suggestions and assumptions the other players bring to the 
table. Keep in mind that until you announce something, 
your own plans are subject to change. For example, if you 
originally intended the owner of a tavern to be kindly and 
well-intentioned, but a player misreads her and invents 
an interesting conspiracy theory regarding her intentions 
that sounds fun, you might convert the tavern owner into 
an agent of evil after all. 

You'll also determine when PCs and foes need to attempt 
checks, as well as the consequences of those rolls. This 
comes up most often outside of encounters, as encounters 
are more regimented about when checks happen and how 
they are resolved. In an encounter, a player can usually 
determine their own character's turn, with you chiming in 
only to say whether an attack hits or if something in the 
environment requires a character to attempt a check. 


THE SPOTLIGHT 

As you run the game, keep track of who has the spotlight. 
It can be easy to keep attention on the most outgoing 
player or character, but you need to check in with all the 
players. If a player hasn’t contributed in some time, stop 
and ask, “What’s your character doing at this point?” If 
the player’s not sure, add a detail or nonplayer character 
to the scene that the player might find interesting. 


DISTRACTIONS AND INTERRUPTIONS 

Maintaining the players’ attention keeps a game moving 
and leads to memorable moments when everyone’s in the 
same zone. Too many interruptions break the flow. This 
is fine in moderation. Distractions become a problem if 
they’re too frequent, as they cause people to miss things 
and make misinformed decisions as the session becomes 
disconnected. Yet every game includes breaks—sometimes 
intentional, sometimes not—and digressions. Finding the 
right balance of diversions for your group is essential. 

A game is a social gathering, so there’s definitely a place 
for conversation that’s not directly related to playing the 
game. These interruptions become a problem if they’re too 
frequent, or if people are talking over others. If a player 
repeatedly interrupts you or other people or undercuts 
every crucial moment of the game with a joke, talk to them 
about limiting their comments to appropriate times. Often, 
all you need to do is hold up your hand or otherwise 
indicate that the player is talking out of turn to delay them 
until after you or another speaker finishes talking. 

Phones and other mobile devices are another major 
source of distraction. Banning them entirely is often 
impractical—many players use apps to roll dice or manage 
their character sheets, or they need to answer texts from 
their partner, check in on a work project, or otherwise 
stay connected with people who rely on them. However, 
you can set ground rules against using a device for 
anything that’s not time-sensitive or game-related, such 
as refreshing social media, checking the score of a hockey 
game, playing a mobile game, or answering a non-urgent 
text. You can relax these rules for players when their 
characters are “offstage.” If a player’s character isn’t in a 
scene, that might be a good time for the player to use a 
mobile device. 


ADJUDICATING THE RULES 


As the GM, you are responsible for solving any rules 
disputes. Remember that keeping your game moving is 
more important than being 100% correct. Looking up 
rules at the table can slow the game down, so in many 
cases it’s better to make your best guess rather than scour 
the book for the exact rule. (It can be instructive to look 
those rules up during a break or after the session, though!) 

To make calls on the fly, use the following guidelines, 
which are the same principles the game rules are based on. 
You might want to keep printouts of these guidelines and 
the DC guidelines (page 503) for quick reference. 


GAME MASTERING 


a aM iii Te 


OFF-SESSION GAMING 
Session play with a full group isn't the only way to play 
Pathfinder. Finding opportunities to expand on the game 
outside of its regular schedule can keep your group 
engaged between sessions. 

You can get together with a single player to run a 
mini-session for their character, covering a mission that’s 
important to their story but doesn't concern the rest 
of the group. You and the players can work out what 
their characters do during solid stretches of downtime 
via e-mail or chat messages. You can also give players 
opportunities to collaborate on details of the story, 
like having a player design a heraldic symbol for the 
adventuring group or map out their home base. You might 
even decide to award a Hero Point at the next session to 
a player for events that happened outside a session. 

Some events aren't suitable for handling outside of 
sessions. Any event that strongly affects a character 
whose player isn't present should be handled at the 
table when everyone can attend. It’s also helpful to 
recap events that took place outside of the session for all 
characters so no one feels excluded or lost. 


* If you don't know how long a quick task takes, go 
with 1 action, or 2 actions if a character shouldn't be 
able to perform it three times per round. 

* If you're not sure what action a task uses, look for 
the most similar basic action. If you don't find one, 
make up an undefined action (page 462) and add 
any necessary traits (usually attack, concentrate, 
manipulate, or move). 

* When two sides are opposed, have one roll against 
the other's DC. Don't have both sides roll (initiative 
is the exception to this rule). The character who 
rolls is usually the one acting (except in the case of 
saving throws). 

* [fan effect raises or lowers chances of success, grant a 
+1 circumstance bonus or a ^1 circumstance penalty. 

* If youre not sure how difficult a significant 
challenge should be, use the DC for the party's level. 

* If you're making up an effect, creatures should be 
incapacitated or killed on only a critical success 
(or for a saving throw, on a critical failure). 

* If you don't know what check to use, pick the most 
appropriate skill. If no other skill applies to a check 
to Recall Knowledge, use an appropriate Lore skill 
(usually at an untrained proficiency rank). 

* Use the characters’ daily preparations as the time 
to reset anything that lasts roughly a day. 

* When a 
noteworthy that doesn't have rules for XP, award 
them XP for an accomplishment (10 to 30 XP, as 
described on page 507). 

* When the PCs fail at a task, look for a way they 
might fail forward, meaning the story moves 


character accomplishes something 


THE AGE OF 


| LOST OMENS 


| MASTERING 


E 


Sede aa an — ee eae 
FINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 7 
—— — d 


mese 


p — — —À 


SHARING RESPONSIBILITY 

Just because you're the GM and ostensibly in charge 
doesn't mean you have to do all the extra work to make 
the campaign run. Some of the tasks described here, like 
scheduling games, taking notes, and giving recaps, can be 
delegated to other players. You might also have someone 
track initiative or the Hit Points of the PCs' foes for you 
in encounters, or even run those foes if you have a large 
group and someone would rather do that than control 
a character of their own. It's also great when someone 
else can host a session, provide snacks for the group, or 
take on other responsibilities that aren't directly related 
to the game. 

It's best to figure out a schedule of responsibilities 
when you're first setting up a game. Ask the players 
what they're willing to take on. If you start to feel 
overwhelmed partway through a campaign, you can 
revisit the topic and try out new options until you find a 
setup that's comfortable. 


PAIZO'S PUBLISHED ADVENTURES 
You can purchase the following types of adventures at 
paizo.com, your local game store, or many book stores. If 
you want to acquire all the adventures in a given line, you 
can purchase a subscription at paizo.com. 


Pathfinder Adventure Paths 

Each monthly volume of a Pathfinder Adventure Path 
leads into the next as part of a greater story spanning 
multiple volumes. The first volume of each Adventure 
Path typically starts at 1st level, and each volume has a 
self-contained story that eventually leads to a big climax 
at the end of the final volume. Each volume also typically 
includes new monsters, rules, and details about the world. 
Each Adventure Path has a different theme, and their 
settings range across the Inner Sea region and beyond. 


Pathfinder Adventures 
Pathfinder Adventures are standalone adventures that 
cover several levels of play. They're self-contained and 
typically have a unique structure or theme. You can play 
through a Pathfinder Adventure on its own or as part of 
your ongoing campaign—some make ideal side adventures 
for Adventure Paths that have similar themes. 


Pathfinder Society Scenarios 

Scenarios are the adventures used by the Pathfinder 
Society Roleplaying Guild; you can play them as part of 
the Pathfinder Society or on your own. Each takes about 
4 to 5 hours to run, so you can tell a whole story in a 
short amount of time, but they're also part of a larger 
continuity and can be combined together to form the 
basis of a longer campaign. 


forward with a negative consequence rather than 
the failure halting progress entirely. 


SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES 


The player characters in your group will at times attempt 
tasks that should be easier or harder than the rules or 
adventure would otherwise lead you to expect, such 
as a PC Gathering Information in their hometown. In 
these cases, you can just apply a circumstance bonus or 
penalty. Usually, this is +1 or -1 for a minor but significant 
circumstance, but you can adjust this bonus or penalty to 
+2 or 2 for a major circumstance. The maximum bonus 
or penalty, +4 or -4, should apply only if someone has an 
overwhelming advantage or is trying something extremely 
unlikely but not quite impossible. 

You can also add traits to actions. Let's say that during a 
fight, Seelah dips her sword into a brazier of hot coals before 
swinging it at an enemy with a weakness to fire. You could 
add the fire trait to this attack. A PC getting an advantage 
in this way should usually have to use an action to do so, 
so Seelah would get the benefit for one attack, but to do it 
again she'd need to bury her sword in the coals once more. 


INCORPORATING ADDITIONAL OPTIONS 


You might grant players access to additional rule or 
character options. If you feel confident that allowing a 
character to take a particular option will be a good addition 
to your game, then go for it! If you’re uncertain or worried 
about a request, you don’t have to allow it, and it’s your call 
to make. However, try to meet players halfway or suggest 
alternatives. If you want to allow an option on a trial basis 
but are worried it might become a problem later, talk to 
the player beforehand and explain that you are tentatively 
allowing the option, but might change your mind later, 
after you see how the option can be used during play. 


PATHFINDER SOCIETY 


Organized play campaigns allow you to play in and run 
games all over the world with persistent characters. If you 
want to play Pathfinder this way, you can do so through 
the Pathfinder Society Roleplaying Guild! Once you go 
online to PathfinderSociety.club to make an account, you 
can organize games yourself with your friends or join an 
existing event. 

Pathfinder Society primarily uses 4- to 5-hour adventures 
called scenarios. At the start of a session when you’re 
running a scenario, you'll collect your players’ information. 
At the end of the adventure, you'll record the rewards their 
characters earn for completing the scenario, all of which 
are detailed in the adventure. Once you report the session's 
results online, the rewards become a persistent part of 
these characters, even if they play in other games with 
other groups. These scenarios include important choices, 
and you can report what your group chose—decisions that 
will guide the future of the campaign! 


RUNNING MODES OF PLAY 


Pathfinder sessions are divided into three different modes of play: encounters, exploration, 
and downtime. Each mode represents different kinds of situations, with specific stakes 


and time scales, and characters can use different sorts of actions and reactions in each. 


Sen, °° £e e 


Encounters take place in real time or slower, and they 
involve direct engagement between players and enemies, 
potential allies, or each other. Combat and direct social 
interaction usually take place in encounter mode. 

Exploration is the connective tissue of an adventure, 
and it is used whenever characters are exploring a place 
where there’s danger or uncertainty, such as an unfamiliar 
city or a dungeon. In exploration mode, characters 
aren’t in immediate peril, but they must still be on 
their toes. Exploration and encounters are collectively 
called adventuring. 

When the party isn’t adventuring, the characters are in 
downtime. This mode covers most of a normal person’s 
life, such as mundane, day-to-day tasks and working 
toward long-term goals. 


ENCOUNTERS 


Encounter mode is the most structured mode of play, 
and you'll mostly be following the rules presented in 
Chapter 9 to run this mode. Because you usually call for 
initiative during exploration before transitioning into 
an encounter, guidelines for initiative order appear on 
page 498 in the discussion of exploration mode. Rules 
for building combat encounters appear on page 488. 

Stakes: Moderate to high. Encounters always have 
significant stakes, and they are played in a step-by-step 
time frame to reflect that. 

Time Scale: Encounter mode is highly structured 
and proceeds in combat rounds for combat encounters, 
while other sorts of encounters can have rounds of any 
length. In combat, 1 minute consists of 10 rounds, 
where each combat round is 6 seconds long, but 
you might decide a verbal confrontation proceeds in 
minute-long or longer rounds to give each speaker 
enough time to make a solid point. 

Actions and Reactions: In combat encounters, each 
participant’s turn is broken into discrete actions, and 
participants can use reactions when their triggers occur. 
Reactions can occur in social situations, though their 
triggers are usually more descriptive and less tactical. 


CHOOSING ADVERSARIES’ ACTIONS 


Players often coordinate and plan to be as efficient as 
possible, but their adversaries might not. As the GM, 
you’re roleplaying these foes, and you decide their tactics. 
Most creatures have a basic grasp of simple tactics like 
flanking or focusing on a single target. But you should 
remember that they also react based on emotions and 


make mistakes—perhaps even more than the player 
characters do. 

When selecting targets or choosing which abilities to 
use, rely on the adversaries’ knowledge of the situation, 
not your own. You might know that the cleric has a high 
Will save modifier, but a monster might still try to use a 
fear ability on her. That doesn’t mean you should play 
adversaries as complete fools; they can learn from their 
mistakes, make sound plans, and even research the player 
characters in advance. 

Adversaries usually don’t attack a character who’s 
knocked out. Even if a creature knows a fallen character 
might come back into the fight, only the most vicious 
creatures focus on helpless foes rather than the more 
immediate threats around them. 

Running adversaries is a mix of being true to the 
creature and doing what’s best for the drama of the 
game. Think of your encounter like a fight scene in a 
movie or novel. If the fighter taunts a fire giant to draw 
its attention away from the fragile wizard, the tactically 
sound decision is for the giant to keep pummeling the 
wizard. But is that the best choice for the scene? Perhaps 
everyone will have more fun if the giant redirects its ire to 
the infuriating fighter. 


BYPASSED ENCOUNTERS 


What happens if you’ve planned a fight or challenge 
and the PCs find a way to avoid it entirely? This could 
leave them behind in XP or cause them to miss important 
information or treasure. 

In the case of XP, the guidelines are simple: If the 
player characters avoided the challenge through smart 
tactical play, a savvy diplomatic exchange, clever use of 
magic, or another approach that required ingenuity and 
planning, award them the normal XP for the encounter. 
If they did something that took only moderate effort 
or was a lucky break, like finding a secret passage and 
using it to avoid a fight, award them XP for a minor or 
moderate accomplishment. In an adventure that’s more 
free-form, like a sprawling dungeon with multiple paths, 
there might be no reward for bypassing an encounter, 
because doing so was trivial. 

You'll have to think on your feet if information or items 
get skipped when players bypass encounters. First, look 
for another reasonable place in the adventure to place the 
information or item. If it makes sense, move the original 
encounter to another part of the adventure and give the 
PCs a major advantage for bypassing the encounter in 
the first place. 


EQUIPMENT 
ES 
SPELLS 
F E pe 
THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 
_ 

GAME 
| MASTERING 


X 


^ 


CRAFTING 
T 


3 TREASURE 


Tra 


3 


CORE RULEBOOK 42 


PLAYING WITHOUT A GRID 

The Pathfinder rules are built to play combat encounters 
on a 1-inch grid, but you can play without a grid or map. 
In what's traditionally called the “theater of the mind,” 
you and other players imagine the locations of the 
combatants and the environment. In this style of play, 
you'll frequently need to make judgment calls. These are 
usually simple, like "Can | see the ogre from where I'm 
standing?" or "Can | get to the ogre with one Stride?” It's 
often best to have a player tell you what they want to do, 
such as “I want to cross the beam to get to the ogre and 
attack it." Then, you tell the player how that breaks down 
into actions, like "You'll need to spend one action and 
succeed at an Acrobatics check, then Stride to get close 
enough, then you'll have one action left for a Strike.” 

When preparing encounters, avoid using lots of 
difficult terrain, cover, or other battlefield challenges 
that work better on a grid. Also, be more lenient with 
combat tactics like flanking. You won't have a way to 
measure flanking, but the rules expect melee characters 
like rogues to often get into a flanking position—often, 
two characters ganging up in melee is enough to count. 


ENDING ENCOUNTERS 


A combat encounter typically ends when all the creatures 
on one side are killed or knocked unconscious. Once 
this happens, you can stop acting in initiative order. 
The surviving side then has ample time to ensure that 
everyone taken out stays down. However, you might need 
to keep using combat rounds if any player characters are 
near death, clinging to a cliff, or in some other situation 
where every moment matters for their survival. 

You can decide a fight is over if there's no challenge 
left, and the player characters are just cleaning up the last 
few weak enemies. However, avoid doing this if any of 
the players still have inventive and interesting things they 
want to try or spells they're concentrating on—ending 
an encounter early is a tool to avoid boredom, not to 
deny someone their fun. You can end a fight early in 
several ways: the foes can surrender, an adversary can die 
before its Hit Points actually run out, or you can simply 
say the battle's over and that the PCs easily dispatch 
their remaining foes. In this last case, you might ask, “Is 
everyone okay if we call the fight?" to make sure your 
players are on board. 

One side might surrender when almost all its 
members are defeated or if spells or skills thoroughly 
demoralize them. Once there's a surrender, come out 
of initiative order and enter into a short negotiation. 
These conversations are really about whether the 
winners will show mercy to the losers or just kill 
or otherwise get rid of them. The surrendering side 
usually doesn't have much leverage in these cases, so 
avoid long back-and-forth discussions. 


FLEEING ENEMIES 

Fleeing enemies can be a problem. Player characters 
often want to pursue foes that flee because they think an 
enemy might return as a threat later on. Avoid playing 
this out move by move, as it can easily bog down the 
game. If every adversary is fleeing, forgo initiative 
order and give each PC the option to pursue any one 
fleeing foe. Each PC can declare one action, spell, or 
other ability to use to try to keep up. Then, compare the 
PC’s Speed to that of the target, assess how much the 
pursuer’s chosen spell or ability would help, and factor 
in any abilities the quarry has that would aid escape. 
If you determine that the pursuer catches up, go back 
into combat with the original initiative order. If not, the 
quarry escapes for now. 

If the PCs decide to flee, it’s usually best to let them do 
so. Pick a particular location and allow them to escape 
once they all reach it. However, if they’re encumbered 
or otherwise slowed down, or if enemies have higher 
Speeds and a strong motive to pursue, you might impose 
consequences upon PCs who flee. 


SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS 


Most conversations play best as free-form roleplaying, 
with maybe one or two checks for social skills involved. 
Sometimes, though, a tense situation or crucial parlay 
requires a social encounter that uses initiative, much like 
a combat encounter. As with any other encounter, the 
stakes of a social encounter need to be high! A failed social 
encounter could mean a character is imprisoned or put to 
death, a major rival becomes a political powerhouse, or a 
key ally is disgraced and ostracized. 

Using the structure of an encounter is helpful because 
it makes the timing clearer than in free-form play, and 
each character feels like they’re contributing. When 
running a social encounter, establish the stakes up 
front, so the players know the consequences of success 
or failure and the circumstances that will cause the 
encounter to end. 

You have much more flexibility in how you run a 
social encounter than in a combat encounter. Extending 
the length of rounds beyond 6 seconds, allowing more 
improvisation, and focusing less on special attacks and 
spells all differentiate a social encounter from a combat 
one. In most cases, you don’t need to worry about 
character’s movements, nor do you need a map. Some 
examples of social encounters include: 

* Proving someone's innocence in front of a judge. 

* Convincing a neighboring monarch to help defend 

against an invasion. 

* Besting a rival bard in a battle of wits. 

* Exposing a villain's deception before a noble court. 


ĪNITIATIVE AND ÅCTIONS 
Initiative in a social encounter typically has characters 
rolling Society or a Charisma-based skill, such as 


Diplomacy or Deception. As with other encounters, a 


character’s approach to the conflict determines which 
skill they'll roll. On a character's turn, they typically get 
to attempt one roll, usually by using a skill action. Let 
the player roleplay what their character says and does, 
then determine what they'll roll. Allow them to use any 
abilities or spells that might help them make their case, 
though keep in mind that when most people see the visual 
signs of a spell being cast, they think someone is using 
magic to try to influence or harm them, and they have a 
negative reaction. 

Good social encounters include an opposition. 
This can be direct, such as a rival who argues against 
the characters' case, or passive, such as a mob that 
automatically becomes more unruly as each round 
passes. Give the opposition one or more positions in the 
initiative order so you can convey what it is doing. You 
can create game statistics for the opposition, especially if 
it's an individual, but in situations like that of the unruly 
mob, you might need nothing more than establish a set 
of increasingly difficult DCs. 


MEasuRING Success AND PRüGRESS 

You'll need to decide how to measure the characters’ 
success in social encounters, because there’s no AC 
to target or HP to whittle down. Chapter 4 includes 


a eh ee 


GAME MASTERING 


N 


p 


guidance on setting DCs for social skill actions, often 
using a target’s Will DC. If you need a DC for people who 
don’t have stats, such as a crowd or an NPC for whom 
you haven’t already generated statistics, use the guidelines 
on setting DCs, found on page 503. You can either pick a 
simple DC or use a level-based DC, estimating a level for 
the subject or how challenging it should be to sway them. 

The attitude conditions—hostile, unfriendly, indifferent, 
friendly, and helpful—provide a useful way to track the 
progress of a social encounter. Use these to represent 
the attitude of an authority, a crowd, a jury, or the like. 
A typical goal for a social encounter is to change the 
attitude of a person or group to helpful so they assist you, 
or calming a hostile group or person to defuse a situation. 
Try to give the players a clear idea of how much they’ve 
progressed as the encounter proceeds. 

Another option is to track the number of successes 
or failures the characters accrue. For instance, you 
might need to trick four guards into leaving their posts, 
and count each successful attempt to Lie or Create a 
Diversion toward a total of four necessary successes. 
You can combine these two methods; if the PCs need a 
group of important nobles to vote their way, the goal of 
the encounter might be to ensure that a majority of the 
nobles have a better attitude toward the PCs than they 
have of a rival—all within a limited time frame. 


——- 


3 INTRODUCTION 


| 10 


" 


ANCESTRIES 8 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES - ; 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


)ATHF ERIC 2UL 


CONSEQUENCES 

When you set stakes at the start of a social encounter, 
give an idea of the consequences. Beyond whatever 
narrative benefits player characters might gain, a social 
encounter usually includes an XP award. Because these are 
encounters along the same lines as combat encounters, they 
grant a sizable amount of XP, typically that of a moderate 
accomplishment, or even a major accomplishment if the 
encounter was the culmination of long-term plans or a 
significant adversary got their comeuppance. 

The outcome of a social encounter should direct 
the story of the game. Look for repercussions. Which 
NPCs might view the PCs more favorably now? Which 
might hold a grudge or formulate a new plan? A social 
encounter can seal the fate of an NPC and end their story, 
but this isn’t true for player characters. Even if something 
looks truly dire for them, such as a death sentence, the 
social encounter isn’t the end—there’s still time for 
desperate heroics or a twist in the story. 


EXPLORATION 


Exploration mode is intentionally less regimented than 
encounters. As a result, during exploration you’ll be making 
judgment calls on just about everything that happens. 

Fundamentally, exploration is all about rewarding the 
PCs for learning about their surroundings. To facilitate 
this, it’s especially important to have and convey a clear 
mental picture of the group’s surroundings. You’ll be 
better able to keep track of where the players are and 
describe the sights, sounds, and other sensations of their 
adventuring locales. Encourage the players to have their 
characters truly explore, and reward their curiosity. The 
things they try to do in exploration mode show you what 
they’re interested in and what they consider important. 
As you play, you’ll get a good feel for the aspects of 
exploration that intrigue certain players, and you can add 
more of those things to your adventures or emphasize 
these points in published adventures. 

Stakes: Low to moderate. Exploration mode should be 
used when there’s some amount of risk, but no immediate 
danger. The PCs might be in an environment where they’re 
likely to face monsters or hazards, but they usually stay 
in exploration mode until they enter a fight or engage in 
some other direct interaction. 

Time Scale: When the PCs are in exploration mode, 
time in the game world passes much faster than 
real-world time at the table, so it’s rarely measured out 
to the second or the minute. You can speed up or slow 
down how quickly things are happening as needed. If it’s 
important to know exactly how much time is passing, 
you can usually estimate time spent in exploration mode 
to 10-minute increments. 

Actions and Reactions: Though exploration isn’t 
broken into rounds, exploration activities assume the 
PCs are spending part of their time using actions, such as 


Seeking or Interacting. If they have specific actions they 
want to use, they should ask; you can decide whether the 
actions apply and whether to switch to encounter mode 
for greater detail. PCs can use any relevant reactions that 
come up during exploration mode. 


EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES 


In exploration mode, each player who wants to do 
something beyond just traveling chooses an exploration 
activity for their character. The most common activities 
are Avoid Notice, Detect Magic, Hustle, and Search, 
though there are many options available. While players 
usually hew close to these default activities, there’s no 
need for them to memorize the exploration activities and 
use them exactly. Instead, allow each player to describe 
what their character is doing. Then, as the GM, you can 
determine which activity applies. This also means you 
determine how an activity works if the character’s actions 
differ from those on the list. 

The following sections discuss exploration activities that 
require adjudication from you beyond the guidelines for 
players detailed on pages 479-480 of Chapter 9. 


Detect Masic 

This activity doesn’t enable characters to automatically 
find every single magical aura or object during travel. 
Hazards that require a minimum proficiency can’t be 
found with detect magic, nor can illusions of equal or 
higher level than the spell. 

When characters find something magical using this 
activity, let them know and give them the option to stop 
and explore further or continue on. Stopping brings 
you into a more roleplay-heavy scene in which players 
can search through an area, assess different items, or 
otherwise try to figure out the source of the magic and 
what it does. Continuing on might cause the group to 
miss out on beneficial magic items or trigger a magic trap. 


FaLLow THE EXPERT 

A skilled character can help out less skilled allies who 
choose to Follow the Expert. This is a good way to help a 
character with a low Stealth modifier sneak around, get a 
character with poor Athletics up a steep cliff, and so on. 
Usually, a character who is Following the Expert can’t 
perform other exploration activities or follow more than 
one person at a time. 


INVESTIGATE 

As with Searching or Detecting Magic, the initial result 
of Investigating is usually enough to give the investigator 
a clue that leads into a more thorough examination, but 
it rarely gives all possible information. For instance, a 
character might note that the walls of a dungeon are 
covered with Abyssal writing, but they would need 


to stop to read the text or determine that it’s written 
in blood. 


SEARCH 

With a successful Perception check while Searching, a 
character notices the presence or absence of something 
unusual in the area, but it doesn’t provide a comprehensive 
catalog of everything there. Instead, it gives a jumping-off 
point for closer inspection or an encounter. For instance, 
if an area has both a DC 30 secret door and a DC 25 trap, 
and a Searching character got a 28 on their Perception 
check, you would tell the player that their character 
noticed a trap in the area, and you’d give a rough idea 
of the trap’s location and nature. The party needs to 
examine the area more to learn specifics about the trap, 
and someone would need to Search again to get another 
chance to find the secret door. 

If an area contains many objects or something that will 
take a while to search (such as a cabinet full of papers), 
Searching would reveal the cabinet, but the PCs would have 
to examine it more thoroughly to check the papers. This 
usually requires the party to stop for a complete search. 

You roll a secret Perception check for a Searching 
character to detect any secrets they pass that’s in a 
place that stands out (such as near a door or a turn in 
a corridor), but not one that’s in a more inconspicuous 
place (like a random point in a long hallway) unless they 
are searching particularly slowly and meticulously. 


SETTING A PARTY ORDER 


In exploration mode, it often matters which characters 


are in the front or back of the party formation. Let the 
players decide among themselves where in the group their 
characters are while exploring. This order can determine 
who gets attacked first when enemies or traps threaten 
from various directions. It’s up to you to determine the 
specifics of who gets targeted based on the situation. 

When you come out of exploration mode, the group 
usually remains in the same general formation. Decide 
the PCs’ exact positions, with their input, if you’re 
moving to a grid (as usually happens at the start of a 
combat encounter). If they come out of exploration mode 
on their own terms, they can move around as they see fit. 
For example, if they detect a trap and the rogue starts 
attempting to disarm it, the other characters can move to 
whatever locations they think are safe. 


ADVERSE TERRAIN AND WEATHER 


Exploration gets slower when the party faces dense 
jungles, deep snow, sandstorms, extreme heat, or similar 
difficult conditions. You decide how much these factors 
impact the characters’ progress. The specific effects of 
certain types of terrain and weather are described starting 
on page 512. 


T THFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK j 
op eC __ 


a 


EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES 

The following exploration activities are fully detailed on 
pages 479-480 of Chapter 9. Many more appear within 
Chapter 4: Skills. 

* Avoid Notice 

* Defend 

* Detect Magic 

* Follow the Expert 

e Hustle 

* Investigate 

* Repeat a Spell 

e Scout 

* Search 


Improvising New Activities 

If a player wants to do something not covered by other 
rules, here are some guidelines. If the activity is similar 
to an action someone could use in an encounter, such 
as Avoid Notice, it usually consists of a single action 
repeated roughly 10 times per minute (such as using the 
Sneak action 10 times) or an alternation of actions that 
works out similarly (such as Search, which alternates 
Stride and Seek). An activity using a quicker pace, 
corresponding to roughly 20 actions per minute, might 
have limited use or cause fatigue, as would one requiring 
intense concentration. 

You might find that a player wants to do something 
equivalent to spending 3 actions every 6 seconds, just like 
they would in combat. Characters can exert themselves to 
this extent in combat only because combat lasts such a 
short time—such exertion isn't sustainable over the longer 
time frame of exploration. 


Difficult terrain such as thick undergrowth usually 
slows down progress. Unless it’s important how far the 
group gets in a particular time frame, this can be covered 
with a quick description of chopping through the vines or 
trudging through a bog. If the characters are on a deadline, 
adjust their progress on Table 9-2: Travel Speed (page 479), 
typically cutting it in half if almost all of the land is difficult 
terrain or to one-third for greater difficult terrain. 

Hazardous terrain, such as the caldera of an active 
volcano, might physically harm the player characters. 
The group might have the option to travel directly 
through or go around by spending more time. You can 
transition into a more detailed scene while the characters 
move through hazardous terrain and attempt to mitigate 
the damage with spells or skill checks. If they endure 
hazardous terrain, consider giving the PCs a minor or 
moderate XP reward at the end of their exploration, with 
slightly more XP if they took smart precautions to avoid 
taking damage. 

Dangerous crevasses, swampy bogs, quicksand, and 
similar dangers are environmental hazards, which are 
described beginning on page 512. 


HAZARDS 


Exploration can get broken up by traps and other hazards 
(see Hazards on page 520). Simple hazards pose a threat 
to the PCs only once and can be dealt with in exploration 
mode. Complex hazards require jumping into encounter 
mode until the hazard is dealt with. Disabling a trap or 
overcoming a hazard usually takes place in encounter 
mode. PCs have a better chance to detect hazards while 
exploring if they’re using the Search activity (and the 
Detect Magic activity, in the case of some magic traps). 


ROLLING INITIATIVE 


Transitioning from exploration to an encounter usually 
involves rolling for initiative. Call for initiative once a 
trap is triggered, as soon as two opposing groups come 
into contact, or when a creature on one side decides to 
take action against the other. For example: 

* A group of PCs are exploring a cavern. They enter 
a narrow passage patrolled by a group of kobold 
warriors. Now that the two groups are in the same 
area, it's time to roll initiative. 

* Amiri and a kobold champion agree to have 
a friendly wrestling match. They square off 
on a patch of dirt, and you call for initiative 
using Athletics. 

* Merisiel and Kyra are negotiating with the kobold 
king. Things aren't going well, so Merisiel decides 
to launch a surprise attack. As soon as she says 
this is her plan, you call for initiative. 

* Harsk and Ezren are trying to Balance across a 
narrow beam to reach an isolated kobold treasure 
trove. When they get halfway across, a red dragon 
who was hiding behind the mountain flies around 
to attack! As soon as the dragon makes its 
appearance, you call for an initiative roll. 


INITIATIVE AFTER REACTIONS 

In some cases, a trap or a foe has a reaction that tells 
you to roll initiative. For instance, a complex trap that’s 
triggered might make an attack with its reaction before 
the initiative order begins. In these cases, resolve all the 
results of the reaction before calling for initiative rolls. 


Cyoosine THE TYPE oF ROLL 
When choosing what type of roll to use for initiative, 
lean toward the most obvious choice. The most common 
roll is Perception; this is what the kobolds would use in 
the first example, as would Kyra and the kobold king 
in the third example. The next most common skills to 
use are Stealth (for sneaking up, like the dragon in the 
last example) and Deception (for tricking opponents, 
like Merisiel in the third example). For social contests, 
it’s common to use Deception, Diplomacy, Intimidation, 
Performance, or Society. 

If you're unsure what roll to call for, use Perception. 
If a different type of roll could make sense for a character, 


you should usually offer the choice of that roll or 
Perception and let the player decide. Don’t do this if it’s 
absolutely clear another kind of check matters more than 
Perception, such as when the character is sneaking up on 
enemies and should definitely use Stealth. 

You can allow a player to make a case that they should 
use a different skill than Perception, but only if they 
base it on something they’ve established beforehand. For 
example, if in the prelude to the attack, Merisiel’s player 
had said, “I’m going to dangle down off the chandelier to 
get the drop on them,” you could let them use Acrobatics 
for their initiative roll. If they just said, “Hey, I want to 
attack these guys. Can I use Acrobatics?” without having 
established a reason beforehand, you probably shouldn’t 
allow it. 


CHARACTER PLACEMENT 

When calling for initiative for a combat encounter, you'll 
need to decide where the participants in the encounter 
go on the battle map. Use the party’s order, described on 
page 497, as a base. You can move forward characters 
who are using Stealth to get into position, putting them 
in a place they could reasonably have moved up to before 
having a chance to be detected. Consult with each player 
to make sure their position makes sense to both of you. 


RESTING 


Characters require 8 hours of sleep each day. Though 
resting typically happens at night, a group gains the 
same benefits for resting during the day. Either way, 
they can gain the benefits of resting only once every 24 
hours. A character who rests for 8 hours recovers in the 
following ways: 

* The character regains Hit Points equal to their 
Constitution modifier (minimum 1) multiplied 
by their level. If they rest without any shelter or 
comfort, you might reduce this healing by half (to a 
minimum of 1 HP). 

* The character loses the fatigued condition. 

* The character reduces the severity of the doomed 
and drained conditions by 1 

* Most spellcasters need to rest before they regain 
their spells for the day. 

A group in exploration mode can attempt to rest, but 
they aren't entirely safe from danger, and their rest might 
be interrupted. The 8 hours of rest do not need to be 
consecutive, however, and after an interruption, characters 
can go back to sleep. 

Sleeping in armor results in poor rest and causes a 
character to wake up fatigued. If a character would have 
recovered from fatigue, sleeping in armor prevents it. 

If a character goes more than 16 hours without going 
to sleep, they become fatigued. 

Taking long-term rest for faster recovery is part of 
downtime and can't be done during exploration. See 
page 502. for these rules. 


pom EE ee mdi i. m 


P GAME MASTERING 


inca t — "ORBE Wege 


MONITORING SPELL DURATIONS 
Spell durations are approximate values that codify the 
vagaries and eccentricities of magic into a convenient 
number. However, that doesn't mean you can set your 
watch by a spell with a 1-hour duration. This is one of 
the reasons the passage of time outside of encounters is 
in your hands and isn't as precise as encounter rounds. 
If a question arises about whether a spell has expired, 
you make the call. You shouldn't be punitive, but you also 
shouldn't treat characters like they move with clockwork 
precision and perfect efficiency between encounters. 
There are two times these durations matter most: when 
players try to fit multiple encounters within the duration 
of a spell, and when they want to use a spell before a fight 
and keep it in effect during the encounter. 


Multiple Encounters 

A 1-minute spell should last for multiple encounters only if 
the encounters happen in very close proximity (usually in 
two adjoining rooms) and if the PCs go directly from one 
fight to the next without leaving encounter mode. If they 
want to stop and heal, or if the party debates whether to go 
on, the process takes enough time that the spell runs out. 

Be more generous with spells lasting 10 minutes or 
more. A 10-minute spell easily lasts for one encounter and 
could continue for another if the locations are close. A 
1-hour spell usually lasts for several encounters. 


Before a Fight 

Casting advantageous spells before a fight (sometimes 
called "pre-buffing") gives the characters a big advantage, 
since they can spend more combat rounds on offensive 
actions instead of preparatory ones. If the players have the 
drop on their foes, you usually can let each character cast 
one spell or prepare in some similar way, then roll initiative. 

Casting preparatory spells before combat becomes 
a problem when it feels rote and the players assume it 
will always work-that sort of planning can't hold up in 
every situation! In many cases, the act of casting spells 
gives away the party's presence. In cases where the PCs' 
preparations could give them away, you might roll for 
initiative before everyone can complete their preparations. 


Warces AND Surprise ÅTTACKS 

Adventuring parties usually put a few people on guard to 
watch out for danger while the others rest. Spending time 
on watch also interrupts sleep, so a night's schedule needs 
to account for everyone's time on guard duty. Table 10—3: 
Watches and Rest on the next page indicates how long the 
group needs to set aside for rest, assuming everyone gets a 
rotating watch assignment of equal length. 

If a surprise encounter would occur during rest, you 
can roll a die to randomly determine which character is 
on watch at the time. All characters roll initiative; sleeping 
characters typically roll Perception with a —4 status penalty 


p —— 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 
Si : 


- THE ABE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 
t 9.8. 
GAME 

| MASTERING 
TE Xz 


B TREASURE 
2 
- APPENDIX 


yis 
» 


for being unconscious. They don’t automatically wake up 
when rolling initiative, but they might roll a Perception 
check to wake up at the start of their turn due to noise. If a 
savvy enemy waits for a particularly vulnerable character to 
take watch before attacking, the attack can happen on that 
character’s watch automatically. However, you might have 
the ambusher attempt a Stealth check against the Perception 
DCs of all characters to see if anyone noticed its approach. 


TABLE 10-3: WATCHES AND REST 


Group Total Duration of 
Size Time Each Watch 
2 16 hours 8 hours 
3 12 hours 4 hours 
4 10 hours, 40 minutes 2 hours, 40 minutes 
5 10 hours 2 hours 
6 9 hours, 36 minutes 1 hour, 36 minutes 


DAILY PREPARATIONS 


Just before setting out to explore, or after a night’s rest, 
the PCs spend time to prepare for the adventuring day. 
This typically happens over the span of 30 minutes to an 
hour in the morning, but only after 8 full hours of rest. 
Daily preparations include the following. 

* Spellcasters who prepare spells choose which spells 
they'll have available that day. 

* Focus Points and other abilities that reset during 
daily preparations refresh. This includes abilities that 
can be used only a certain number of times per day. 

* Each character equips their gear. This includes 
donning their armor and strapping on their weapons. 

* Characters invest up to 10 worn magic items to gain 
their benefits for the day (page 531). 


STARVATION AND THIRST 


Typically characters eat and drink enough to survive 
comfortably. When they can’t, they’re fatigued until they 
do. Without water, after a number of days equal to a 
creature’s Constitution modifier + 1, the creature takes 1d4 
damage each hour that can’t be healed until it quenches its 
thirst. After the same amount of time without food, it takes 
1 damage each day that can’t be healed until it eats. 


DOWNTIME 


In downtime, you can sum up the important events of 
a whole day with just one roll. Use this mode when the 
characters return home or otherwise aren’t adventuring. 

Usually, downtime is a few minutes at the start of a 
session or a break between major chapters of an adventure. 
As with exploration, you might punctuate downtime with 
roleplaying or encounters when it’s natural to do so. 

This section describes ways to handle downtime and 
details several activities and considerations specific to 
downtime, such as cost of living, buying and selling goods, 


long-term rest, and retraining. Most other downtime 
activities are skill actions; a number of these common 
downtime activities and their associated skills are listed 
below. See the relevant skills in Chapter 4 for details. 

* Craft (Crafting) 

* Earn Income (Crafting, Lore, Performance) 

* Treat Disease (Medicine) 

* Create Forgery (Society) 

* Subsist (Society, Survival) 

Stakes: None to low. Downtime is the counterpart to 
adventuring and covers low-risk activities. 

Time Scale: Downtime can last days, weeks, months, 
or years in the game world in a few minutes of real time. 

Actions and Reactions: If you need to use actions and 
reactions, switch to exploration or encounter mode. 
A creature that can't act is unable to perform most 
downtime activities, but it can take long-term rest. 


PLAYING OUT A DOWNTIME DAY 


At the start of a given day of downtime, have all the players 
declare what their characters are trying to accomplish that 
day. You can then resolve one character’s efforts at a time 
(or group some characters together, if they are cooperating 
on a single project). Some activities, such as Earning 
Income, require only a simple roll and some embellishment 
from you and the player. Other activities are more involved, 
incorporating encounters or exploration. You can call on 
the players to play out their downtime activities in any 
order, though it’s often best to do the simplest ones first. 
Players who aren’t part of a more involved activity might 
have time to take a break from the table while the more 
complex activities are played out. 

Characters can undertake their daily preparations if 
they want, just as they would on a day of exploration. 
Ask players to establish a standard set of preparations, 
and you can assume the characters go through the same 
routine every day unless their players say otherwise. 


COOPERATION 

Multiple characters can cooperate on the same downtime 
task. If it’s a simple task that requires just one check, such 
as a party Subsisting as they await rescue on a desert 
island, one character rolls the necessary check while 
everyone else Aids that character. If its a complex task, 
assume all of them are working on different parts of it at 
one time, so all their efforts count toward its completion. 
For example, a party might collaborate to build a theater, 
with one character drawing up architectural plans, one 
doing manual labor, and one talking to local politicians 
and guilds. 


CHECKS 

Some downtime activities require rolls, typically skill 
checks. Because these rolls represent the culmination of a 
series of tasks over a long period, players can’t use most 
abilities or spells that manipulate die rolls, such as activating 


PI} AS DM 


nee 


_— ss eee 


Y 


P a 


d 
E *j 


a magic item to gain a bonus or casting a fortune spell to 
roll twice. Constant benefits still apply, though, so someone 
might invest a magic item that gives them a bonus without 
requiring activation. You might make specific exceptions to 
this rule. If something could apply constantly, or so often 
that it might as well be constant, it's more likely to be used 
for downtime checks; for instance, Assurance could apply. 


LONGER PERIODS OF DOWNTIME 


Running downtime during a long time off—like several 
weeks, months, or even years—can be more challenging. 
However, it’s also an opportunity for the characters to 
progress toward long-term plans rather than worrying 
about day-to-day activities. Because so much time is 
involved, characters don’t roll a check for each day. 
Instead, they deal with a few special events, average out 
the rest of the downtime, and pay for their cost of living. 


EVENTS 
After the characters state what they want to achieve in their 
downtime, select a few standout events for each of them— 
usually one event for a period of a week or a month, or 
four events for a year or longer. These events should be 
tailored to each character and their goals, and they can 
serve as hooks for adventures or plot development. 
Though the following examples of downtime events 
all involve Earning Income, you can use them to spark 
ideas for other activities. A character using Perform to 


> GAME MASTERING 


Earn Income could produce a commanding performance 
of a new play for visiting nobility. Someone using Crafting 
might get a lucrative commission to craft a special item. 
A character with Lore might have to research a difficult 
problem that needs a quick response. 

PCs who want to do things that don’t correspond to a 
specific downtime activity should still experience downtime 
events; you just choose the relevant skill and DC. For 
example, if a character intends to build their own library 
to house their books on magic, you might decide setting the 
foundation and organizing the library once construction 
is finished are major events. The first could be a Crafting 
check, and the second an Arcana or Library Lore check. 


Far ne pened of downtime, you might not want to 
roll for every week, or even every month. Instead, set the 
level for one task using the lowest level the character can 
reliably find in the place where they spend their downtime 
(see Difficulty Classes on page 503 for more on setting task 
levels). If the character fails this check, you might allow 
them to try again after a week (or a month, if you’re dealing 
with years of downtime). Don’t allow them to roll again if 
they succeeded but want to try for a critical success, unless 
they do something in the story of the game that you think 
makes it reasonable to allow a new roll. 

The events you include during a long stretch of 
downtime should typically feature higher-level tasks than 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


9.8. 
GAME 


MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


A )? 


—á——m€ PHI eme ae ^ 
JATHF i 


‘ORE RULEBOOK 4 


1 alie — as iind - am 


the baseline. For instance, a character Earning Income 
with Sailing Lore for 4 months might work at a port 
doing 1st-level tasks most of the time, but have 1 week 
of 3rd-level tasks to account for busy periods. You'll 
normally have the player roll once for the time they spent 
at 1st-level tasks and once for the week of 3rd-level tasks. 


COST OF LIVING 


For short periods of downtime, characters are usually just 
passing through a settlement or spending a bit of time 
there. They can use the prices for inn stays and meals 
found on page 294. For long stretches of downtime, use 
the values on Table 6-16: Cost of Living on the same 
page. Deduct these costs from a character’s funds after 
they gain any money from their other downtime activities. 

A character can live off the land instead, but each day 
they do, they typically use the Subsist activity (page 240) to 
the exclusion of any other downtime activity. 


BUYING AND SELLING 


After an adventure yields a windfall, the characters might 
have a number of items they want to sell. Likewise, when 
they’re flush with currency, they might want to stock up 
on gear. It usually takes 1 day of downtime to sell off a 
few goods or shop around to buy a couple items. It can 
take longer to sell off a large number of goods, expensive 
items, or items that aren’t in high demand. 

This assumes the characters are at a settlement of 
decent size during their downtime. In some cases, they 
might spend time traveling for days to reach bigger cities. 
As always, you have final say over what sort of shops and 
items are available. 

An item can usually be purchased at its full Price and 
sold for half its Price. Supply and demand adjusts these 
numbers, but only occasionally. 


LONG-TERM REST 


Each full 24-hour period a character spends resting 
during downtime allows them to recover double what 
they would for an 8-hour rest (as listed on page 499). 
They must spend this time resting in a comfortable and 
secure location, typically in bed. 

If they spend significantly longer in bed rest—usually 
from a few days to a week of downtime—they recover 
from all damage and most nonpermanent conditions. 
Characters affected by diseases, long-lasting poisons, 
or similar afflictions might need to continue attempting 
saves during downtime. Some curses, permanent injuries, 
and other situations that require magic or special care 
to remove don’t end automatically during long-term rest. 


RETRAINING 


The retraining rules on page 481 allow a player to change 
some character choices, but they rely on you to decide 
whether the retraining requires a teacher, how long it 
takes, if it has any associated costs, and if the ability can 


be retrained at all. It’s reasonable for a character to retrain 
most choices, and you should allow them. Only choices that 
are truly intrinsic to the character, like a sorcerer’s bloodline, 
should be off limits without extraordinary circumstances. 

Try to make retraining into a story. Use NPCs the 
character already knows as teachers, have a character 
undertake intense research in a mysterious old library, or 
ground the retraining in the game’s narrative by making 
it the consequence of something that happened to the 
character in a previous session. 


TIME 

Retraining a feat or skill increase typically takes a 
week. Class features that require a choice can also be 
retrained but take longer: at least a month, and possibly 
more. Retraining might take even longer if it would be 
especially physically demanding or require travel, lengthy 
experimentation, or in-depth research, but usually you 
won’t want to require more than a month for a feat or 
skill, or 4 months for a class feature. 

A character might need to retrain several options at 
once. For instance, retraining a skill increase might 
mean they have skill feats they can no longer use, and 
so they’ll need to retrain those as well. You can add all 
this retraining time together, then reduce the total a bit to 
represent the cohesive nature of the retraining. 


INSTRUCTION AND Costs 

The rules abstract the process of learning new things as 
you level up—yov're learning on the job—but retraining 
suggests that the character works with a teacher or 
undergoes specific practice to retrain. If you want, you 
can entirely ignore this aspect of retraining, but it does 
give an opportunity to introduce (or reintroduce) NPCs 
and further the game's story. You can even have one 
player character mentor another, particularly when it 
comes to retraining skills. 

Any costs to retraining should be pretty minor—about 
as much as a PC could gain by Earning Income over 
the same period of time. The costs are mostly there to 
make the training feel appropriate within the context 
of the story, not to consume significant amounts of the 
character’s earnings. A teacher might volunteer to work 
without pay as a reward for something the character has 
already done, or simply ask for a favor in return. 


DisaLLowen Options 

While some character options can't normally be retrained, 
you can invent ways for a character to retrain even these— 
special rituals, incredible quests, or the perfect tutor. For 
example, ability scores can't normally be retrained, as that 
can unbalance the game. But not all players necessarily 
want to exploit the system—maybe a player simply 
wants to swap an ability boost between two low stats. In 
situations like this, you could let them spend a few months 
working out or studying to reassign an ability boost. 


DIFFICULTY CLASSES 
As the Game Master, it’s up to you to set the difficulty classes (DCs) for checks that don’t 
use a predefined DC. The following sections offer advice on how to set appropriate DCs 
and tweak them as needed to feel natural for your story. Picking a simple DC and using a 
level-based DC each work well in certain circumstances, and you can adjust both types of 


DC using the advice on adjusting difficulty. 


Å R CC 


SIMPLE DCS 

Sometimes you need to quickly set a Difficulty Class. The 
easiest method is to select a simple DC from Table 10-4 
by estimating which proficiency rank best matches the task 
(that rank is usually not required to succeed at the task). 
If it’s something pretty much anyone would have a decent 
chance at, use the untrained DC. If it would require a degree 
of training, use the DC listed for trained, expert, master, or 
legendary proficiency, as appropriate to the complexity of the 
task. For example, say a PC was trying to uncover the true 
history behind a fable. You determine this requires a check 
to Recall Knowledge, and that only someone with master 
proficiency in Folktale Lore would know the information, 
so you’d set the DC at 30—the simple master DC. 

Simple DCs work well when you need a DC on the fly 
and there’s no level associated with the task. They’re most 
useful for skill checks. Because there isn’t much gradation 
between the simple DCs, they don’t work as well for 
hazards or combatants, where the PCs’ lives are on the line; 
you’re better off using level-based DCs for such challenges. 


TABLE 10-4: SIMPLE DCS 


Proficiency Rank DC 
Untrained 10 
Trained 15 
Expert 20 
Master 30 
Legendary 40 


LEVEL-BASED DCS 
When you’re determining a skill DC based on something 
that has a level, use Table 10-5 to set the DC. Find the 
level of the subject, and assign the corresponding DC. Since 
spells use a 1-10 scale, use the Spell Level column for them. 
Use these DCs when a PC needs to Identify a Spell or 
Recall Knowledge about a creature, attempts to Earn 
Income by performing a task of a certain level, and so 
on. You can also use the level-based DCs for obstacles 
instead of assigning a simple DC. For example, you 
might determine that a wall in a high-level dungeon was 
constructed of smooth metal and is hard to climb. You 
could simply say only someone with master proficiency 
could climb it, and use the simple DC of 30. Or you 
might decide that the 15th-level villain who created the 


dungeon crafted the wall, and use the 15th-level DC of 
34. Either approach is reasonable! 

Note that PCs who invest in a skill become more likely 
to succeed at a DC of their level as they increase in level, 
and the listed DCs eventually become very easy for them. 


TABLE 10-5: DCS BY LEVEL 


Level DC Level 
0 14 13 
1 15 14 
2 16 15 
3 18 16 
4 19 17 
5 20 18 
6 22 19 
7 23 20 
8 24 21 
9 26 22 

10 27 23 
1i 28 24 
12 30 25 
Spell Level* DC 

1st 15 

2nd 18 

3rd 20 

Ath 23 

5th 26 

6th 28 

7th 31 

8th 34 

9th 36 

10th 39 


* If a spell is uncommon or rare, its difficulty should be 
adjusted accordingly. 


ADJUSTING DIFFICULTY 

You might decide a DC should differ from the baseline, 
whether to account for PCs’ areas of expertise or to 
represent the rarity of spells or items. A DC adjustment 
represents an essential difference in the difficulty of a task 
and applies to anyone attempting a specific check for it. 
Adjustments happen most often with tasks whose DCs 
are based on their level. Adjustments use a scale of -10 
to +10, from incredibly easy checks to incredibly hard 


_ THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


MASTERING 


ro 


ones, and are broken into increments of 2, 5, and 10. 
You'll often apply the adjustments for uncommon, rare, 
or unique subjects. 


TABLE 10-6: DC ADJUSTMENTS 


Difficulty Adjustment Rarity 
Incredibly easy -10 = 

Very easy -5 - 

Easy -2 = 

Hard +2 Uncommon 
Very hard +5 Rare 
Incredibly hard +10 Unique 


The adjustments’ names don’t translate to how hard a 
task actually is for a PC or group of PCs, and adjustments 
aren’t meant to balance out or replace PCs’ bonuses and 
penalties. PCs who invest in a skill will become better and 
better at that skill as they increase in level. For example, even 
the best 1st-level PC has grim odds against an incredibly 
hard 1st-level DC, with a huge chance of critical failure, but 
by 20th level, an optimized character with a modicum of 
magic or assistance can take down incredibly hard 20th- 
level DCs over half the time, critically failing only on a 1. At 
higher levels, many groups will find that the very hard DC is 
more like standard for them; keep that in mind if you need 
a check that presents a true challenge to a high level group. 

You might use different DCs for a task based on the 
particular skill or statistic used for the check. Let's say 
your PCs encounter a magical tome about aberrant 
creatures. The tome is 4th-level and has the occult trait, 
so you set the DC of an Occultism check to Identify the 
Magic to 19, based on Table 10-5. As noted in Identify 
Magic, other magic-related skills can typically be used at 
a higher DC, so you might decide the check is very hard 
for a character using Arcana and set the DC at 24 for 
characters using that skill. If a character in your group 
had Aberration Lore, you might determine that it would 
be easy or very easy to use that skill and adjust the DC 
to 17 or 14. These adjustments aren’t taking the place of 
characters’ bonuses, modifiers, and penalties—they are 
due to the applicability of the skills being used. 


GROUP ATTEMPTS 


The DCs in this chapter give an individual character a 
strong and increasing chance of success if they have some 
proficiency. On occasion, though, you'll have a task that 
only one person in the group needs to succeed at, but that 
everyone can attempt. The number of dice being rolled 
means that there’s a very high chance at least one of them 
will succeed. Most of the time, that’s perfectly fine, but 
sometimes you’ll want the task to be a challenge, with 
some uncertainty as to whether the party can succeed. In 
these cases, make the check very hard, or incredibly hard 
if you want it to be particularly difficult or at high levels. 
At these DCs, most of the party will probably fail, but 


someone will probably still succeed, likely a character who 
has heavily invested in the given skill, as is expected for 
specialized characters. 


MINIMUM PROFICIENCY 
Sometimes succeeding at a particular task requires a 
character to have a specific proficiency rank in addition 
to a success on the check. Locks and traps often require a 
certain proficiency rank to successfully use the Pick a Lock 
or Disable a Device actions of Thievery. A character whose 
proficiency rank is lower than what's listed can attempt 
the check, but they can't succeed. You can apply similar 
minimum proficiencies to other tasks. You might decide, 
for example, that a particular arcane theorem requires 
training in Arcana to understand. An untrained barbarian 
can’t succeed at the check, but she can still attempt it if she 
wants—after all, she needs to have a chance to critically 
fail and get erroneous information! 

For checks that require a minimum proficiency, keep 
the following guidelines in mind. A 2nd-level or lower 
task should almost never require expert proficiency, 
a 6th-level or lower task should almost never require 
master proficiency, and a 14th-level or lower task should 
almost never require legendary proficiency. If they did, no 
character of the appropriate level could succeed. 


SPECIFIC ACTIONS 


Several parts of this book, most notably Chapter 4: Skills, 
state that you as the GM set the DCs for certain checks or 
determine other parameters. Here are guidelines for the most 
common tasks. Remember that all of these are guidelines, 
and you can adjust them as necessary to suit the situation. 


CRAFT 


When a character Crafts an item, use the item’s level 
to determine the DC, applying the adjustments from 
Table 10-6 for the item’s rarity if it’s not common. You 
might also apply the easy DC adjustment for an item the 
crafter has made before. Repairing an item usually uses the 
DC of the item’s level with no adjustments, though you 
might adjust the DC to be more difficult for an item of a 
higher level than the character can Craft. 


EARN INCOME 


You set the task level when someone tries to Earn Income. 
The highest-level task available is usually the same as the 
level of the settlement where the character is located. If 
you don’t know the settlement's level, it's usually 0-1 for a 
village, 2-4 for a town, or 5-7 for a city. A PC might need 
to travel to a metropolis or capital to find tasks of levels 
8-10, and to the largest cities in the world or another plane 
to routinely find tasks beyond that. Some locations might 
have higher-level tasks available based on the nature of 
the settlement. A major port might have higher-level tasks 


Y À e — = 
` - 
p -z 
AM 
M 
S / ^ = y. 
x . f ———— 
ADS, ESS | 
( LIT | 
Y af 
A TAN 
í 
f N 
\ T. e - b t 
b ES x» — A 
m 
e ~na SÉ 7 
` — N 
/ eus 
"e j 4 m 
"n. cc — F 7? 


for Sailing Lore, a city with a vibrant arts scene might 
have higher-level tasks for Performance, and so on. If 
someone is trying to use a particularly obscure skill, they 
might have trouble finding tasks of an ideal level, or any 
at all—no one in most settlements is clamoring for the 
expertise of someone with Troll Lore. 

Once the PC has decided on a particular level of task 
from those available, use the DC for that level from 
Table 10-5. You might adjust the DC to be more difficult 
if there’s inclement weather during an outdoor job, a 
rowdy audience for a performance, or the like. 


GATHER INFORMATION 


To set the DC to Gather Information, use a simple DC 
representing the availability of information about the 
subject. Adjust the DC upward if the PC Gathering 
Information seeks in-depth information. For example, 
if a character wants to Gather Information about a 
visiting caravan, you might decide that a common person 
wouldn’t know much about it, but any merchant or guard 
would, so learning basic facts uses the simple DC for 
trained proficiency. A caravan leader’s name is superficial, 
so discovering it might be DC 15 (the simple trained 
DC in Table 10-4). Learning the identity of the leader’s 


employers, however, might be DC 20 if the employers are 


more obscure. 


a a as - acci NN 
GAME MASTERING 


IDENTIFY MAGIC OR LEARN A SPELL 

The DC to Identify Magic or Learn a Spell is usually the 
DC listed in Table 10—5 for the spell or item's level, adjusted 
for its rarity. A very strange item or phenomenon usually 
uses a higher DC adjustment. For a cursed item or certain 
illusory items, use an incredibly hard DC to increase the 
chance of misidentification. 


RECALL KNOWLEDGE 


On most topics, you can use simple DCs for checks to Recall 
Knowledge. For a check about a specific creature, trap, or 
other subject with a level, use a level-based DC (adjusting 
for rarity as needed). You might adjust the difficulty down, 
maybe even drastically, if the subject is especially notorious 
or famed. Knowing simple tales about an infamous 
dragon’s exploits, for example, might be incredibly easy for 
the dragon’s level, or even just a simple trained DC. 


ALTERNATIVE SKILLS 

As noted in the action’s description, a character might 
attempt to Recall Knowledge using a different skill than 
the ones listed as the default options. If the skill is highly 
applicable, like using Medicine to identify a medicinal 
tonic, you probably don’t need to adjust the DC. If its 
relevance is a stretch, adjust the DC upward as described 
in Adjusting Difficulty. 


| MASTERING 


oe 


S e LR. DEI enr cs STS EC 
PATHFİNDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
a TT a ww" 


DETERMINING THE SCOPE OF LORE 

Lore skills are one of the most specialized aspects of 
Pathfinder, but they require GM oversight, particularly 
in determining which Lore subcategories are acceptable 
for characters to select. A Lore subcategory represents 
a narrow focus, and thus it shouldn't replace all or even 
most of an entire skill, nor should it convey vast swaths 
of information. For example, a single Lore subcategory 
doesnt cover all religions-that's covered by the Religion 
skill-but a character could have a Lore subcategory that 
covers a single deity. One Lore subcategory won't cover an 
entire country or all of history, but it could cover a city, an 
ancient civilization, or one aspect of a modern country, like 
Taldan History Lore. A single Lore subcategory couldn't 
cover the entire multiverse, but it could cover a whole 
plane other than the Material Plane. 


AnnrrioNAL KNowLence 

Sometimes a character might want to follow up on a check 
to Recall Knowledge, rolling another check to discover 
more information. After a success, further uses of Recall 
Knowledge can yield more information, but you should 
adjust the difficulty to be higher for each attempt. Once a 
character has attempted an incredibly hard check or failed 
a check, further attempts are fruitless—the character has 
recalled everything they know about the subject. 


CREATURE IDENTIFICATION 
A character who successfully identifies a creature learns 
one of its best-known attributes—such as a troll’s 
regeneration (and the fact that it can be stopped by acid 
or fire) or a manticore’s tail spikes. On a critical success, 
the character also learns something subtler, like a demon’s 
weakness or the trigger for one of the creature’s reactions. 
The skill used to identify a creature usually depends 
on that creature’s trait, as shown on Table 10-7, but you 
have leeway on which skills apply. For instance, hags are 
humanoids but have a strong connection to occult spells 
and live outside society, so you might allow a character to 
use Occultism to identify them without any DC adjustment, 
while Society is harder. Lore skills can also be used to identify 
their specific creature. Using the applicable Lore usually has 
an easy or very easy DC (before adjusting for rarity). 


SENSE DIRECTION 


Pick the most appropriate simple DC when someone uses 
Survival to Sense Direction. This is usually the trained DC 
in normal wilderness, expert in deep forest or underground, 
master in featureless or tricky locations, or legendary in 
weird or surreal environments on other planes. 


SOCIAL SKILLS 


When a character uses Deception, Diplomacy, 
Intimidation, or Performance to influence or impress 
someone whose level or Will DC you don’t know, estimate 


TABLE 10-7: CREATURE IDENTIFICATION SKILLS 


Aberration Occultism 
Animal Nature 
Astral Occultism 
Beast Arcana, Nature 
Celestial Religion 
Construct Arcana, Crafting 
Dragon Arcana 
Elemental Arcana, Nature 
Ethereal Occultism 
Fey Nature 
Fiend Religion 
Fungus Nature 
Humanoid Society 
Monitor Religion 
Ooze Occultism 
Plant Nature 
Spirit Occultism 
Undead Religion 


the level of the creature and use that DC. A commoner is 
usually level 0 or 1. Don’t worry about being exact. It 
often makes sense to adjust the DC based on the target’s 
attitude for Deception, Diplomacy, or Performance, 
making the DC easy for a friendly creature, very easy for 
a helpful one, hard for an unfriendly one, or very hard 
for a hostile one. You might adjust the DC further or 
differently based on the PC’s goal; for instance, the DC to 
Request something an indifferent NPC is fundamentally 
opposed to might be incredibly hard or impossible, and 
it might be easy to convince an unfriendly creature to do 
something it already wants to do. 


SUBSIST 


A simple DC is usually sufficient for the Subsist action, with 
a trained DC for a typical situation. Use the disposition of 
the environment or city as a guide; an environment with 
scarce resources or a city with little tolerance for transience 
might require an expert or higher DC. 


TRACK 


Often when a PC uses Survival to Track, you can pick a 
simple DC and adjust it based on the circumstances. For 
example, an army is usually easy to track, so you could use 
the untrained DC of 10. If the army marched through mud, 
you could even adjust this down to DC 5. On the other 
hand, if the party pursues a cunning survivalist using Cover 
Tracks, you might use their Survival DC as the DC to Track. 


TRAIN AN ANIMAL 


Train Animal (page 268) allows PCs to teach animals 
tricks. Use the level of the animal as the baseline; you can 
adjust the DC up if the trick is especially difficult, or down 
if the animal is especially domesticated, like a dog. 


REWARDS 


In Pathfinder, player characters can receive three kinds of rewards for their heroic deeds: 
Hero Points, which they can use to get out of sticky situations; Experience Points, which 


they'll use to level up; and treasure, including powerful magic items. 


icc — — —————————— 


HERO POINTS 

Unlike Experience Points and treasure, which stay with a 
character, Hero Points are granted and used on a per-session 
basis. At the start of a game session, you give out 1 Hero 
Point to each player character. You can also give out more 
Hero Points during the game, typically after a heroic 
moment or accomplishment (see below). As noted on page 
467, a player can spend 1 Hero Point for a reroll, or they 
can spend all their Hero Points to recover when near death. 

In a typical game, you'll hand out about 1 Hero Point 
during each hour of play after the first (for example, 3 
extra points in a 4-hour session). If you want a more over- 
the-top game, or if your group is up against incredible 
odds and showing immense bravery, you might give them 
out at a faster rate, like 1 every 30 minutes (6 over a 
4-hour session). Try to ensure each PC has opportunities 
to earn Hero Points, and avoid granting all of the Hero 
Points to a single character. 

Brave last stands, protecting innocents, and using a 
smart strategy or spell to save the day could all earn a 
character a Hero Point. Look for those moments when 
everybody at the table celebrates or sits back in awe of a 
character's accomplishments; that's your cue to issue that 
character a Hero Point. 

The party could also gain Hero Points for their 
accomplishments throughout the game. For a moderate 
or major accomplishment, consider giving out a Hero 
Point as well. This point typically goes to a PC who was 
instrumental in attaining that accomplishment. 


EXPERIENCE POINTS 

As characters adventure, they earn Experience Points (XP). 
These awards come from achieving goals, completing 
social encounters, exploring new places, fighting monsters, 
overcoming hazards, and other sorts of deeds. You have 
a great deal of control over when the characters gain XP, 
though the following guidelines are what you're expected 
to give out in a standard campaign. 

Normally, when a player character reaches 1,000 XP 
or more, they level up, reduce their XP by 1,000, and 
start progressing toward the next level. Other means of 
advancement are described in the Advancement Speeds 
sidebar on page 509. 


XP AWARDS 


Experience Points are awarded for encounters, exploration, 
and progress in an adventure. When the PCs face direct 
opposition, such as a fight or a social conflict, the XP 


earned is based on the level of the challenge the party 
overcame. Characters can also gain XP from exploration, 
such as finding secret areas, locating a hideout, enduring 
a dangerous environment, or mapping an entire dungeon. 

Any XP awarded goes to all members of the group. For 
instance, if the party wins a battle worth 100 XP, they 
each get 100 XP, even if the party's rogue was off in a 
vault stealing treasure during the battle. But if the rogue 
collected a splendid and famous gemstone, which you've 
decided was a moderate accomplishment worth 30 XP, 
each member of the party gets 30 XP, too. 


AnveRsARIES AND HAzARDS 

Encounters with adversaries and hazards grant a set 
amount of XP. When the group overcomes an encounter 
with creatures or hazards, each character gains XP equal to 
the total XP of the creatures and hazards in the encounter 
(this excludes XP adjustments for different party sizes; see 
Party Size on page 508 for details). 

Trivial encounters don't normally grant any XP, but 
you might decide to award the same XP as for a minor or 
moderate accomplishment for a trivial encounter that was 
important to the story, or for an encounter that became 
trivial because of the order in which the PCs encountered 
it in a nonlinear adventure. 


ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
Characters’ actions that move the story forward—like 
securing a major alliance, establishing an organization, 
or causing an NPC to have a change of heart—are 
considered accomplishments and should be rewarded 
with XP. Their significance determines the size of the 
XP award. Determine whether the achievement was a 
minor, moderate, or major accomplishment, and refer 
to Table 10-8: XP Awards on page 508 to award an 
appropriate amount of XP. Minor accomplishments 
include all sorts of significant, memorable, or surprising 
moments in the game. A moderate accomplishment 
typically represents a goal that takes most of a session 
to complete, and a major accomplishment is usually 
the culmination of the characters’ efforts across many 
sessions. Moderate and major accomplishments usually 
come after heroic effort, so that's an ideal time to also give 
a Hero Point to one or more of the characters involved. 
As mentioned earlier, it's up to you how much XP to 
give out for accomplishments. As a general guideline, in 
a given game session, you'll typically give several minor 
awards, one or two moderate awards, and only one 
major award, if any. 


I 


"i 


xdi 
EQUIPMENT 
Hus 
SPELLS 
tt 


s 
. THE AGE OF 
_ LOST OMENS 


~ PLAYING THE 
.. BAME 
» 
XD 
GAME 
MASTERING 


5 TREA 


SURE 


ieee ne sme 


E. 


CORE RULEBOOK 4 


TABLE 10-8: XP AWARDS 


Minor 10 XP 
Moderate" 30 XP 
Major 80 XP 


* Typically earns a Hero Point as well. 


Adversary Level XP Award 


Party level - 4 10 XP 
Party level - 3 15 XP. 
Party level - 2 20 XP 
Party level - 1 30 XP 
Party level 40 XP 
Party level 1 60 XP 
Party level + 2 80 XP 
Party level + 3 120 XP 
Party level + 4 160 XP 
XP Award 


Hazard Level Simple Hazard Complex Hazard 


Party level - 4 2 XP 10 XP 
Party level - 3 3 XP 15 XP. 
Party level - 2 4 XP 20 XP. 
Party level - 1 6 XP 30 XP. 

Party level 8 XP 40 XP 
Party level + 1 12 XP 60 XP 
Party level + 2 16 XP 80 XP 
Party level + 3 24 XP 120 XP 
Party level + 4 32 XP 160 XP 


PARTY SIZE 


The rules for advancement assume a group of four PCs. 
The rules for encounters (page 489) describe how to 
accommodate groups of a different size, but the XP awards 
don’t change—always award the amount of XP listed for a 
group of four characters. You usually won’t need to make 
many adjustments for a differently sized group outside of 
encounters. Be careful of providing too many ways to get 
accomplishment XP when you have a large group, though, 
since they can pursue multiple accomplishments at once, 
which can lead to the PCs leveling up too fast. 


GROUP PARITY AND PARTY LEVEL 


It’s recommended that you keep all the player characters 
at the same XP total. This makes it much easier to know 
what challenges are suitable for your players. Having 
characters at different levels can mean weaker characters 
die more easily and their players feel less effective, which 
in turn makes the game less fun for those players. 

If you choose not to keep the whole group at the same 
character level, you’ll need to select a party level to determine 
your XP budget for encounters. Choose the level you think 
best represents the party’s ability as a whole. Use the highest 
level if only one or two characters are behind, or an average 
if everyone is at a different level. If only one character is 


two or more levels ahead, use a party level suitable for the 
lower-level characters, and adjust the encounters as if there 
were one additional PC for every 2 levels the higher-level 
character has beyond the rest of the party. 

Party members who are behind the party level gain 
double the XP other characters do until they reach the 
party’s level. When tracking individually, you’ll need to 
decide whether party members get XP for missed sessions. 


TREASURE 
As the GM, it’s your job to distribute treasure to the player 
characters. Treasure appears throughout an adventure, 
and the PCs obtain it by raiding treasure hoards, defeating 
foes who carry valuable items or currency, getting paid 
for successful quests, and any other way you can imagine. 
This section provides guidelines for distributing treasure 
in a typical Pathfinder campaign, but you always have 
the freedom to assign extra treasure for a high-powered 
game, less treasure for a gritty survival horror adventure, 
or any amount in between. 


TREASURE BY LEVEL 


Table 10-9: Party Treasure by Level on the next page shows 
how much treasure you should give out over the course of a 
level for a group of four PCs. The Total Value column gives 
an approximate total value of all the treasure, in case you 
want to spend it like a budget. The next several columns 
provide suggestions for breaking down that total into 
permanent items, which the PCs keep and use for a long 
time; consumables, which are destroyed after being used 
once; and currency, which includes coins, gems, and other 
valuables primarily spent to acquire items or services. The 
final column gives the amount of currency to add for each 
PC beyond four in the group; use this only if you have more 
than four characters in the game. (Different Party Sizes on 
page 510 provides more guidance on this.) 

For instance, between the time your PCs reach 3rd 
level and the time they reach 4th level, you should give 
them the treasure listed in the table for 3rd level, worth 
approximately 500 gp: two 4th-level permanent items, two 
3rd-level permanent items, two 4th-level consumables, two 
3rd-level consumables, two 2nd-level consumables, and 
120 gp worth of currency. 

When assigning 1st-level permanent items, your best 
options are armor, weapons, and other gear from Chapter 6 
worth between 10 and 20 gp. The treasure listed in the row 
for 20th level represents a full level's worth of adventures, 
even though there is no way to reach 21st level. 

Some creature entries in the Pathfinder Bestiary list 
treasure that can be gained by defeating an individual 
creature; this counts toward the treasure for any given level. 
Published adventures include a suitable amount of treasure 
throughout the adventure, though you should still monitor 
the party's capabilities as the PCs progress through the 
adventure to make sure they don't end up behind. 


CURRENCY 

A party will find money and other treasure that isn't 
useful on its own but that can be sold or spent on other 
things. The gp values in the Party Currency column don't 
refer only to coins. Gems, art objects, crafting materials 
(including precious materials), jewelry, and even items of 
much lower level than the party's level can all be more 
interesting than a pile of gold. 

If you include a lower-level permanent item as part of a 
currency reward, count only half the item's Price toward 
the gp amount, assuming the party will sell the item or use 
it as crafting material. But lower-level consumables might 
still be useful, particularly scrolls, and if you think your 
party will use them, count those items at their full Price. 


OTHER Types oF TREASURE 

Not all treasure has to be items or currency. Crafters can 
use the Crafting skill to turn raw materials directly into 
items instead of buying those items with coins. Knowledge 
can expand a character’s abilities, and formulas make good 
treasure for item-crafting characters. A spellcaster might 
get access to new spells from an enemy’s spellbook or an 
ancient scholar, while a monk might retrain techniques with 
rarer ones learned from a master on a remote mountaintop. 


TREASURE AND Rarity 

Giving out uncommon and rare items and formulas 
can get players more interested in treasure. It’s best to 
introduce uncommon items as a reward fairly regularly 
but rare items only occasionally. These rewards are 


TABLE 10-9: PARTY TREASURE BY LEVEL 


Permanent Items 


ADVANCEMENT SPEEDS 

By varying the amount of XP it takes to gain a level, you 
can change how quickly characters gain power. The game 
rules assume a group playing with standard advancement. 
Fast advancement works best when you know you won't 
be playing a very long campaign and want to accomplish 
as much as possible quickly; slow advancement works 
best for a gritty campaign where all progress is hard won. 

You can alter XP from one adventure to the next to get 
a different feel. During a street-level murder mystery and 
travel through a haunted wilderness, you might use slow 
advancement. When the PCs reach the dungeon, you might 
switch to standard or fast advancement. The values below 
are just examples. You can use values even higher or lower. 


Advancement Speed XP to Level Up 


Fast 800 XP 
Standard 1,000 XP 
Slow 1,200 XP 


Story-Based Leveling 

If you don't want to deal with managing and handing out 
XP, or if you want to have progression based solely on 
events in the story, you can ignore the XP process entirely 
and instead simply decide when the characters level up. 
Generally, the characters should gain a level every three 
to four game sessions, just after the most appropriate big 
event that happens during that time, such as defeating a 
significant villain or achieving a major goal. 


Consumables Currency per 


Total Value (By Item Level) (By Item Level) Party Currency Additional PC 

1 175 gp 2nd: 2, 1st: 2" 2nd: 2, 1st: 3 40 gp 10 gp 

2 300 gp 3rd: 2, 2nd: 2 3rd: 2, 2nd: 2, 1st: 2 70 gp 18 gp 

3 500 gp 4th: 2, 3rd: 2 4th: 2, 3rd: 2, 2nd: 2 120 gp 30 gp 
4 850 gp 5th: 2, 4th: 2 5th: 2, 4th: 2, 3rd: 2 200 gp 50 gp 

5 1,350 gp 6th: 2, 5th: 2 6th: 2, 5th: 2, 4th: 2 320 gp 80 gp 

6 2,000 gp 7th: 2, 6th: 2 7th: 2, 6th: 2, 5th: 2 500 gp 125 gp 
7 2,900 gp 8th: 2, 7th: 2 8th: 2, 7th: 2, 6th: 2 720 gp 180 gp 
8 4,000 gp 9th: 2, 8th: 2 9th: 2, 8th: 2, 7th: 2 1,000 gp 250 gp 
g 5,700 gp 10th: 2, 9th: 2 10th: 2, 9th: 2, 8th: 2 1,400 gp 350 gp 
10 8,000 gp Tith: 2, 10th: 2 Tith: 2, 10th: 2, 9th: 2 2,000 gp 500 gp 
1i 11,500 gp 12th: 2, ith: 2 12th: 2, 11th: 2, 10th: 2 2,800 gp 700 gp 
12 16,500 gp 13th: 2, 12th: 2 13th: 2, 12th: 2, 11th: 2 4,000 gp 1,000 gp 
13 25,000 gp 14th: 2, 13th: 2 14th: 2, 13th: 2, 12th: 2 6,000 gp 1,500 gp 
14 36,500 gp 15th: 2, 14th: 2 15th: 2, 14th: 2, 13th: 2 9,000 gp 2,250 gp 
15 54,500 gp 16th: 2, 15th: 2 16th: 2, 15th: 2, 14th: 2 13,000 gp 3,250 gp 
16 82,500 gp 17th: 2, 16th: 2 17th: 2, 16th: 2, 15th: 2 20,000 gp 5,000 gp 
17 128,000 gp 18th: 2, 17th: 2 18th: 2, 17th: 2, 16th: 2 30,000 gp 7,500 gp 
18 208,000 gp 19th: 2, 18th: 2 19th: 2, 18th: 2, 17th: 2 48,000 gp 12,000 gp 
19 355,000 gp 20th: 2, 19th: 2 20th: 2, 19th: 2, 18th: 2 80,000 gp 20,000 gp 
20 490,000 gp 20th: 4 20th: 4, 19th: 2 140,000 gp 35,000 gp 


* Many lst-level permanent items should be items from Chapter 6 instead of magic items. 


- THE ABE OF 
LOST OMENS 


- PLAYING THE 
GAME 


ee 
» 


P 


— e- DIME en 


THFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
a E A E 4S. | 


LI E————— 


ADJUSTING TREASURE 

The treasure you award to the party should be monitored 
and adjusted as you play. You might need to give out 
treasure you hadnt originally planned for, especially 
if the group bypasses part of an adventure. Keep an 
eye on the party's resources. If they're running out of 
consumables or money, or if they're having trouble in 
combat because their items aren't up to the task, you can 
make adjustments. 

This is especially common in adventures that have little 
downtime or that take place far from civilization. If the 
group goes a long time without being able to purchase or 
Craft useful items, the PCs will be flush with coins and 
valuables but behind on useful equipment. In a situation 
like this, you can either place more useful treasure in the 
adventure or introduce NPCs who are willing to trade. 


Megadungeons and Sandboxes 

Some adventures have an expectation that the player 
characters explore where they want and find only what 
their skill, luck, and ingenuity afford. Two common 
examples of this type of adventure are the sprawling 
dungeon with multiple different sections and paths, often 
called a megadungeon, and free-form exploration, often 
called a sandbox and typically occurring in a wilderness. 
If you want to build a free-form adventure like this 
where characters are likely to miss at least some of the 
treasure, increase the amount of treasure you place. Be 
aware, however, that a meticulous group can end up with 
more treasure than normal and will have advantages in 
later adventures. 

For a simple guideline to these situations, increase the 
treasure as though there were one more PC in the party. 
If the structure is especially loose, especially in sandbox 
adventures, you can increase this amount even further. 


especially compelling when the adventurers get the item 
by defeating or outsmarting an enemy who carries an 
item that fits their backstory or theme. 

Uncommon and rare formulas make great treasure for a 
character who Crafts items. Note that if an uncommon or 
rare formula is broadly disseminated, it eventually becomes 
more common. This can take months or years, but the item 
might start showing up in shops all around the world. 


Dirrerent Irem LeveLs 

The levels listed for items on Table 10-9: Party Treasure by 
Level aren’t set in stone. You can provide items of slightly 
higher or lower level as long as you take into account the 
value of the items you hand out. For instance, suppose 
you were considering giving a party of 11th-level PCs a 
runestone with a fortification rune (with a Price of 2,000 gp) 
as one of their 12th-level items, but you realize they've had 
trouble finding armor in their recent adventures, so you 
instead decide to give them a suit of 11th-level +2 resilient 


armor (1,400 gp) instead. Since the armor has a lower 
Price than the rune, you might also add a 9th-level shadow 
rune (650 gp) to make up the difference. The total isn't 
exactly the same, but that's all right. 

However, if you wanted to place a 13th-level permanent 
item in a treasure hoard, you could remove two 11th- 
level permanent items to make a roughly equivalent 
exchange. When you make an exchange upward like this, 
be cautious: not only might you introduce an item with 
effects that are disruptive at the party's current level of 
play, but you also might give an amazing item to one PC 
while other characters don't gain any new items at all! 

If you're playing in a long-term campaign, you can 
spread out the treasure over time. À major milestone can 
give extra treasure at one level, followed by a tougher 
dungeon with fewer new items at the next level. Check 
back occasionally to see whether each PC's treasure is 
comparable to the amount they'd get if they created a 
new character at their current level, as described under 
Treasure for New Characters below. They should be a bit 
higher. but if there's a significant discrepancy, adjust the 
adventure's upcoming treasure rewards accordingly. 


Dirrerent Party Sizes 
If a party has more than four characters, add the following 
for each additional character: 
* One permanent item of the party's level or 1 
level higher 
* Two consumables, usually one of the party's level 
and one of 1 level higher 
* Currency equal to the value in the Currency per 
Additional PC column of Table 10-9 


If the party has fewer than four characters, you can 
subtract the same amount for each missing character, 
but since the game is inherently more challenging with a 
smaller group that can't cover all roles as efficiently, you 
might consider subtracting less treasure and allowing the 
extra gear help compensate for the smaller group size. 


TREASURE FÜR NEW CHARACTERS 


When your new campaign starts at a higher level, a 
new player joins an existing group, or a current player's 
character dies and they need a new one, your campaign 
will have one or more PCs who don't start at 1st level. In 
these cases, refer to Table 10-10: Character Wealth on the 
next page, which shows how many common permanent 
items of various levels the PC should have, in addition to 
currency. A single item on this table is always a baseline 
item. If the player wants armor or a weapon with property 
runes, they must buy the property runes separately, and for 
armor or a weapon made of a precious material, they must 
pay for the precious material separately as well. 

These values are for a PC just starting out at the given 
level. If the PC is joining a party that has already made 
progress toward the next level, consider giving the new 


character an additional item of their current level. If your 
party has kept the treasure of dead or retired PCs and 
passed it on to new characters, you might need to give the 
new character less than the values on the table or reduce 
some of the treasure rewards of the next few adventures. 


ITEM SELECTION 

You should work with the new character’s player to decide 
which items their character has. Allow the player to make 
suggestions, and if they know what items they want their 
character to have, respect their choices unless you believe 
those choices will have a negative impact on your game. 
At your discretion, you can grant the player character 
uncommon or rare items that fit their backstory and 
concept, keeping in mind how many items of those rarities 
you have introduced into your game. The player can also 
spend currency on consumables or lower-level permanent 
items, keeping the rest as coinage. As usual, you determine 
which items the character can find for purchase. 

A PC can voluntarily choose an item that has a lower 
level than any or all of the listed items, but they don’t gain 
any more currency by doing so. 

If you choose, you can allow the player to instead start 
with a lump sum of currency and buy whatever common 
items they want, with a maximum item level of 1 lower 
than the character’s level. This has a lower total value than 
the normal allotment of permanent items and currency, 
since the player can select a higher ratio of high-level items. 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 


BACKGROUNDS 
CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 
EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 
THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 
PLAYING THE 
GAME 
GAME 
MASTERING 
CRAFTING 
TABLE 10-10: CHARACTER WEALTH Ee 
Level Permanent Items Currency Lump Sum 
1 = 15 ep 15 gp APPENDIX 
2 1st: 1 20 gp 30 gp 
3 2nd: 1, 1st: 2 25 gp 75 gp 
4 3rd: 1, 2nd: 2, 1st: 1 30 gp 140 gp 
5 Ath: 1, 3rd: 2, 2nd: 1, 1st: 2 50 gp 270 gp A , 
6  5th:1, 4th: 2, 3rd: 1, 2nd:2 — 80gp  450gp LS ”4 >x y” 
7 6th: 1, 5th: 2, 4th: 1, 3rd: 2 125 gp 720 gp 
8 7th: 1, 6th: 2, 5th: 1, 4th: 2 180 gp 1100 gp 
9 8th: 1, 7th: 2, 6th: 1, 5th: 2 250 gp 1,600 gp 
10 9th: 1, 8th: 2, 7th: 1, 6th: 2 350 gp 2,300 gp 
1|  10th:1, 9th: 2, 8th: 1, 7th:2 500 gp 3,200 gp 
12 41th: 1, 10th: 2, 9th: 1, 8th:2 — 700 gp — 4,500 gp 
13 12th: 1, 11th: 2, 10th: 1, 9th: 2 1,000 gp — 6,400 gp 
14 13th: 1, 12th: 2, 1th: 1, 10th: 2 1,500 gp 9,300 gp 
15 14th: 1, 13th: 2,12th:1,11th:2 2,250 gp — 13,500 gp 
16 15th: 1, 14th: 2, 13th: 1, 12th: 2. 3,250 gp 20,000 gp 
17 16th: 1, 15th: 2, 14th: 1, 13th:2 5,000 gp — 30,000 gp , 
18 17th: 1, 16th: 2, 15th: 1, 14th: 2 7500gp 45,000 gp " 
19 18th: 1, 17th: 2, 16th: 1, 15th: 2. 12,000 gp 69,000 gp 
20 19th: 1, 18th: 2, 17th: 1, 16th: 2. 20,000 gp 112,000 gp 
BUYING AND SELLING ITEMS i 
Characters can usually buy and sell items only during y 
downtime. An item can typically be sold for only half its ) 


Price, though art objects, gems, and raw materials can be 
sold for their full Price (page 271). 


ENVIRONMENT 


Primarily used during exploration, environment rules bring the locales your party 
travels through to life. You'll often be able to use common sense to adjudicate how 
environments work, but you'll need special rules for environments that really stand out. 


— Aig gg ————————————— 


Each of the environments presented in this section uses 
the terrain rules (which are summarized on page 514 
and appear in full beginning on page 475) in different 
ways, so be sure to familiarize yourself with those rules 
before reading this section. Some environments refer to 
the rules for climate (page 517) and natural disasters 
(beginning on page 517). Many places have the traits of 
multiple environments; a snow-covered mountain might 
use both the arctic and mountain environments, for 
example. For environmental features with effects based 
on how tall or deep they are, those effects vary further 
based on a creature’s size. For instance, a shallow bog 
for a Medium creature might be a deep bog for smaller 
creatures, and a deep bog for a Medium creature could 
be only a shallow bog for a larger creature (and so 
insignificant for a truly massive creature that it isn’t 
even difficult terrain). 

Table 10-12 lists the features of various environments 
alphabetically for quick reference. The Proficiency DC 
Band entry indicates a range of appropriate simple DCs 
for that environmental feature, while also providing a 
rough estimate of the danger or complexity of the feature. 


ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE 
Some environmental features or natural disasters deal 
damage. Because the amount of damage can vary based 
on the specific circumstances, the rules for specific 
environments and natural disasters use damage categories 
to describe the damage, rather than exact numbers. 
Use Table 10-11 below to determine damage from an 
environment or natural disaster. When deciding the exact 
damage amount, use your best judgment based on how 
extreme you deem the danger to be. 


TABLE 10-11: ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE 


Minor 1d6-2d6 

Moderate Ad6-6d6 

Major 8d6-12d6 

Massive 18d6-24d6 
AQUATIC 


Aquatic environments are among the most challenging 
for PCs short of other worlds and unusual planes. PCs in 
an aquatic environment need a way to breathe (typically 
a water breathing spell) and must usually Swim to 


move, though a PC who sinks to the bottom can walk 
awkwardly, using the rules for greater difficult terrain. 
Characters in aquatic environments make frequent use 
of the aquatic combat (page 478) and drowning and 
suffocation rules (page 478). 


CURRENTS AND FLOWING WATER 


Ocean currents, flowing rivers, and similar moving water 
are difficult terrain or greater difficult terrain (depending 
on the speed of the water) for a creature Swimming against 
the current. At the end of a creature’s turn, it moves a 
certain distance depending on the current’s speed. For 
instance, a 10-foot current moves a creature 10 feet in 
the current’s direction at the end of that creature’s turn. 


VISIBILITY 


It’s much harder to see things at a distance underwater 
than it is on land, and it’s particularly difficult if the water 
is murky or full of particles. In pure water, the maximum 
visual range is roughly 240 feet to see a small object, and 
in murky water, visibility can be reduced to only 10 feet 
or even less. 


ARCTIC 

The main challenge in an arctic environment is the low 
temperature, but arctic environments also contain ice 
and snow. The disasters that most often strike in arctic 
environments are avalanches, blizzards, and floods. 


ICE 


Icy ground is both uneven ground and difficult terrain, as 
characters slip and slide due to poor traction. 


SNOW 


Depending on the depth of snow and its composition, 
most snowy ground is either difficult terrain or greater 
difficult terrain. In denser snow, characters can attempt 
to walk along the surface without breaking through, but 
some patches might be loose or soft enough that they’re 
uneven ground. 


DESERT 

Desert encompasses sandy and rocky deserts as well 
as badlands. Though tundra is technically a desert, it’s 
classified as arctic, as the climate is the primary challenge 
in such areas. Sandy deserts often have quicksand hazards 
(page 526) and sandstorms. 


RUBBLE 


Rocky deserts are strewn with rubble, which is difficult 
terrain. Rubble dense enough to be walked over rather 
than navigated through is uneven ground. 


SAND 


Packed sand doesn’t usually significantly impede a 
character’s movement, but loose sand is either difficult 
terrain (if it’s shallow) or uneven ground (if it’s deep). 
The wind in a desert often shifts sand into dunes, hills 
of loose sand with uneven ground facing the wind and 
steeper inclines away from the wind. 


FOREST 


These diverse environments include jungles and other 
wooded areas. They are sometimes struck by wildfires. 


CANOPIES 


Particularly dense forests, such as rain forests, have a 
canopy level above the ground. A creature trying to reach 
the canopy or travel along it must Climb. Swinging on 
vines and branches usually requires an Acrobatics or 
Athletics check. A canopy provides cover, and a thicker 
one can prevent creatures in the canopy from seeing those 
on the ground, and vice versa. 


TREES 


While trees are omnipresent in a forest, they typically 
don’t provide cover unless a character uses the Take 
Cover action. Only larger trees that take up an entire 
5-foot square on the map (or more) are big enough to 
provide cover automatically. 


UNDERGROWTH 


Light undergrowth is difficult terrain that allows a 
character to Take Cover. Heavy undergrowth is greater 
difficult terrain that automatically provides cover. Some 
sorts of undergrowth, such as thorns, might also be 
hazardous terrain, and areas with plenty of twisting roots 
might be uneven ground. 


MOUNTAIN 

Mountain environments also include hills, which share 
many aspects of mountains, though not their more extreme 
features. The most common disasters here are avalanches. 


CHASMS 


Chasms are natural pits, typically at least 20 feet long 
and clearly visible (barring mundane or magical efforts to 
conceal them). The main danger posed by a chasm is that 
characters must Long Jump to get across. Alternatively, 
characters can take the safer but slower route of Climbing 
down the near side of the chasm and then ascending the 
far side to get across. 


CLIFFS 


Cliffs and rock walls require creatures to Climb to 
ascend or descend. Without extensive safety precautions, 
a critical failure on Climb checks can result in significant 


falling damage. 


RUBBLE 


Mountains often have extremely rocky areas or shifting, 
gravelly scree that makes for difficult terrain. Especially 


deep or pervasive rubble is uneven ground. 


TABLE 10-12: ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES 


EQUIPMENT 


Feature Pages Proficiency DC Band 3 
Avalanche 518 Expert-legendary n 
Blizzard 518 = F am 
Bog 514 Untrained-trained Pe! 
Canopy 513 Trained-master n HE AGE OF 
Chasm 513 = LOST OMENS 
Cliff 513 Trained-master 
Collapse 518 Expert-legendary PLAYING THE 
Crowd 514 Trained-master ^ BAME 
Current 512 Trained-master — OO 
Door 515 See page 515 GAME 
Earthquake 518 Trained-legendary | MASTERING 
Flood 518 Expert-legendary — ye 
Floor 515, 516 Untrained-expert | pp, " ING 
Fog 517 = AE. 
Bus EU 3 TREASURE 
Guard 515 = 
Hedge 514 Untrained-trained 
Ice 512 Trained-master 
Lava 519 Expert-legendary 
Ledge 516 Untrained-master 
Portcullis 515 See page 515 
Precipitation 517 = 
Rooftop 515 Trained-master 
Rubble 513, 516 Untrained-expert 
Sand 513 Untrained-expert 
Sandstorm 519 Trained-master 
Sewer 515 = 
Slope 514 Untrained-trained 
Snow 512 Untrained-expert 
Stairs 516 Untrained-trained 
Stalagmite 516 Trained-expert 
Street 516 Untrained-trained 
Temperature 517 - 
Tornado 519 Master-legendary 
Tree 513 Untrained-master 
Tsunami 519 Master-legendary 
Undergrowth 513, 514 Untrained-expert 


Underwater Visibility 512 — 
Volcanic Eruption 519 Trained-legendary 


Wall 517 See page 516 
Wildfire 519 Expert-legendary 
Wind 517 Untrained-legendary 


IE on DIM em 


$ JATHFİNDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


- SS ai 


TERRAIN RULES 
Environments make frequent use of the rules for difficult 
terrain, greater difficult terrain, and hazardous terrain, so 
those rules are summarized here. 

Difficultterrain is any terrainthat impedes movement, 
ranging from particularly rough or unstable surfaces to 
thick ground cover and countless other impediments. 
Moving into a square of difficult terrain (or moving 5 
feet into or within an area of difficult terrain, if you're 
not using a grid) costs an extra 5 feet of movement. 
Moving into a square of greater difficult terrain instead 
costs 10 additional feet of movement. This additional 
cost is not increased when moving diagonally. Creatures 
can't normally Step into difficult terrain. 

Any movement creatures make while jumping 
ignores terrain that the creature is jumping over. 
Some abilities (such as flight or being incorporeal) 
allow creatures to avoid the movement reduction from 
some types of difficult terrain. Certain other abilities 
let creatures ignore difficult terrain while traveling on 
foot; such an ability also allows a creature to move 
through greater difficult terrain using the movement 
cost for difficult terrain, but unless the ability 
specifies otherwise, these abilities don't let creatures 
ignore greater difficult terrain. 

Hazardous terrain damages creatures whenever 
they move through it. For instance, an acid pool, a pit 
of burning embers, and a spike-filled passageway all 
constitute hazardous terrain. The amount and type of 
damage depend on the specific hazardous terrain. 


SLOPES 


Slopes vary from the gentle rises of normal terrain 
to difficult terrain and inclines, depending on the 
angle of elevation. Moving down a slope is typically 
normal terrain, but characters might need to Climb up 
particularly steep slopes. 


UNDERGROWTH 


Light undergrowth is common in mountains. It is difficult 
terrain and allows a character to Take Cover. 


PLAINS 


The plains environment encompasses grasslands such as 
savannas and farmland. The most common disasters in 
plains are tornadoes and wildfires. 


HEDGES 


Hedges are planted rows of bushes, shrubs, and trees. 
Their iconic appearance in adventures consists of tall 
hedges grown into mazes. A typical hedge is 2 to 5 feet 
tall, takes up a row of squares, and provides cover. A 
character trying to push through a hedge faces greater 
difficult terrain; it’s sometimes faster to Climb over. 


UNDERGROWTH 


Light undergrowth is difficult terrain that allows a 
character to Take Cover. Heavy undergrowth is greater 
difficult terrain that provides cover automatically. 
Undergrowth in plains is usually light with a few scattered 
areas of heavy undergrowth, but fields of certain crops, 
like corn, are entirely heavy undergrowth. 


SWAMP 

Wetlands are the most common kind of swamp, but 
this category also includes drier marshes such as moors. 
Swamps often contain quicksand hazards (page 526). 
Despite their soggy nature, swamps aren’t very likely 
to experience heavy flooding, since they act as natural 


sponges and absorb a great deal of water before 
they flood. 


BOGS 


Also called mires, bogs are watery areas that accumulate 
peat, are covered by shrubs and moss, and sometimes 
feature floating islands of vegetation covering deeper pools. 
Shallow bogs are difficult terrain for a Medium creature, 
and deep bogs are greater difficult terrain. If a bog is deep 
enough that a creature can’t reach the bottom, the creature 
has to Swim. Bogs are also acidic, so particularly extreme 
or magical bogs can be hazardous terrain. 


UNDERGROWTH 


Light undergrowth is difficult terrain that allows a 
character to Take Cover, while heavy undergrowth is 
greater difficult terrain that provides cover automatically. 
Some sorts of undergrowth, such as thorns, are also 
hazardous terrain, and areas with plenty of twisting roots 
are uneven ground. 


URBAN 


Urban environments include open city spaces as well as 
buildings. The building information in this section also 
applies to ruins and constructed dungeons. Depending on 
their construction and location, cities might be vulnerable 
to many sorts of disasters, especially fires and floods. 


CROWDS 


Crowded thoroughfares and similar areas are difficult 
terrain, or greater difficult terrain if an area is truly packed 
with people. You might allow a character to get a crowd to 
part using Diplomacy, Intimidation, or Performance. 

A crowd exposed to an obvious danger, like a fire or 
a rampaging monster, attempts to move away from the 
danger as quickly as possible, but it is slowed by its own 
mass. A fleeing crowd typically moves at the Speed of an 
average member each round (usually 25 feet), potentially 
trampling or leaving behind slower-moving members of 
the crowd. 


Opening an unlocked door requires an Interact action 
(or more than one for a particularly complicated or large 
door). Stuck doors must be Forced Open, and locked ones 
require a character to Pick the Lock or Force them Open. 


FLOORS 


Wooden floors are easy to walk on, as are flagstone floors 
made of fitted stones. However, floors of worn flagstone 
often contain areas of uneven ground. 


GATES 


Walled settlements often have gates that the city can close 
for defense or open to allow travel. A typical gate consists 
of one portcullis at each end of a gatehouse, with murder 
holes in between or other protected spots from which 
guards can attack foes. 


GUARDS 


Most settlements of significant size have guards working 
in shifts to protect the settlement at all hours, patrolling 
the streets and guarding various posts. The size of this 
force varies from one guard for every 1,000 residents to a 
force 10 times this number. 


PORTCULLISES 


A portcullis is a wooden or iron grate that descends 
to seal off a gate or corridor. Most are raised on ropes 
or chains operated by a winch, and they have locking 
mechanisms that keep them from being lifted easily. The 
rules on lifting a portcullis or bending its bars appear in 
the sidebar on this page. If a portcullis falls on a creature, 
use a slamming door trap (page 523). 


ROOFTOPS 


Rooftops make for memorable ambushes, chase scenes, 
infiltrations, and running fights. Flat roofs are easy 
to move across, but they’re rare in any settlement that 
receives significant snowfall, since heavy buildups of snow 
can collapse a roof. Angled roofs are uneven ground, or 
inclines if they’re especially steep. The peak of an angled 
roof is a narrow surface. 

Hurdling from roof to roof often requires a Long Jump, 
though some buildings are close enough to Leap between. 
A High Jump might be necessary to reach a higher roof, or 
a Leap followed by Grabbing an Edge and Climbing up. 


SEWERS 


Sewers are generally 10 feet or more below street level 
and are equipped with ladders or other means to ascend 
and descend. Raised paths along the walls allow sewer 
workers access, while channels in the center carry the waste 
itself. Less sophisticated sewers, or sections those workers 
don’t usually access, might require wading through disease- 
ridden waste. Sewers can be accessed through sewer grates, 
which usually require 2 or more Interact actions to open. 


TET Nt E r A el OE ESS ee 


> GAM 


MASTERING 


% —— a " — > 


IO 


DOORS, GATES, AND WALLS 
Some of the most common obstacles that characters 
face in urban areas and dungeons are doors, gates, 
and walls. 


Climbing 
The table below gives the typical DC for Athletics checks 
to Climb a structure, which is usually a simple DC. You 
might adjust the difficulty based on the specifics of the 
structure and environment. 


Demolishing 
A character might want to smash their way through 
a door, a window, or certain walls. The Hardness, Hit 
Point, and Broken Threshold values provided in the table 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 
below are based on the material the structure is typically asi 
made out of, so a portcullis made of iron, for example, a 
has a higher Hardness than one of wood. For more on D THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


damaging objects, see page 272. 

Strong walls, such as well-maintained masonry 
or hewn stone, cant be broken without dedicated 
work and proper tools. Getting through such walls 
requires downtime. 


ae THE 
GAME 

Dd 

TE 9.8. 


GAME 

Door ClimbDC Hardness, HP (BT) | MASTERING 
Wood 20 10, 40 (20) : ye 
Reinforced wood 15 15, 60 (30) g TREASURE 
Iron 30 18, 72 (36) n 
Wall ClimbDC Hardness, HP (BT) TEMS 
Crumbling masonry 15 10, 40 (20) : AP wis 
Wooden slats 15 10, 40 (20) -— font 
Masonry 20 14, 56 (28) Í 
Hewn stone 30 14, 56 (28) 
Iron 40 18, 72 (36) 
Portcullis Climb DC Hardness, HP (BT) 
Wood 10 10, 40 (20) 
Iron 10 18, 72 (36) 

Forcing Open 


Structures that can be opened-such as doors, gates, and 
windows-can be Forced Open using Athletics. This is 
usually necessary only if they're locked or stuck. The DC 
to Force Open a structure uses the Thievery DC of its lock 
but adjusts it to be very hard (increasing the DC by 5). 
If theres no lock, use the following table; when lifting 
a portcullis, use the lock DC or the DC from the table, 
whichever is higher. 


Structure Force Open DC 


Stuck door or window 15 
Exceptionally stuck 20 
Lift wooden portcullis 20 
Lift iron portcullis 30 
Bend metal bars 30 


PATHFINDER) conr RULEBOOK | 


Sewer gas often contains pockets of highly flammable 
gas. A pocket of sewer gas exposed to a source of flame 
explodes, dealing moderate environmental fire damage to 
creatures in the area. 


STAIRS 


Stairs are difficult terrain for characters moving up them, 
and shoddy stairs might also be uneven ground. Some 
temples and giant-built structures have enormous stairs 
that are greater difficult terrain both up and down, or 
might require Climbing every step. 


STREETS 


Most settlements have narrow and twisting streets that 
were largely established organically as the settlement 
grew. These roads are rarely more than 20 feet wide, with 
alleys as narrow as 5 feet. Streets are generally paved with 
cobblestones. If the cobblestones are in poor repair, they 
could be difficult terrain or uneven ground. 

Particularly lawful or well-planned cities have major 
thoroughfares that allow wagons and merchants to reach 
marketplaces and other important areas in town. These 
need to be at least 25 feet wide to accommodate wagons 


moving in both directions, and they often have narrow 
sidewalks that allow pedestrians to avoid wagon traffic. 


WALLS 


Well-built structures have exterior walls of brick or 
stonemasonry. Smaller, lower-quality, or temporary 
structures might have wooden walls. Interior walls tend 
to be less sturdy; they could be made of wooden planks, 
or even simply of thick, opaque paper held in a wooden 
frame. An underground structure might have thick 
walls carved out of solid rock to prevent the weight of 
the ground above from collapsing the structure. Rules 
for climbing and breaking walls are in the sidebar on 
page 515. 


UNDERGROUND 

Underground environments consist of caves and natural 
underground areas. Artificial dungeons and ruins combine 
underground features with urban features like stairs and 
walls. Deep underground vaults have some of the same 
terrain features as mountains, such as chasms and cliffs. 
The most common disasters underground are collapses. 


FLOORS 


Natural underground environments rarely have flat floors, 
instead featuring abrupt changes in elevation that result in 
difficult terrain, uneven ground, and inclines. 


LEDGES 


Ledges are narrow surfaces that overlook a lower area 
or provide the only means to move along the edge of 
a chasm. Moving across a narrow ledge requires using 
Acrobatics to Balance. 


RUBBLE 


Caverns can be covered in rubble, which is 
difficult terrain. Deep or pervasive rubble is 
also uneven ground. 


STALAGMITES AND STALACTITES 


Stalagmites are tapering columns that 
rise from the floor of a cave. Areas 
filled with stalagmites are greater 
difficult terrain, and especially large 
stalagmites have to be sidestepped 
or Climbed. Stalagmites can 
be sharp enough they can be 


used as hazardous terrain in some circumstances, as can 
stalactites (icicle-shaped formations that hang from the 
roof of a cave) if they’re knocked loose from a ceiling 
or overhang. 


WALLS 


Natural cave walls are uneven, with nooks, crannies, 
and ledges. Since most caves are formed by water, cave 
walls are often damp, making them even more difficult 
to Climb. 


CLIMATE 


Weather is more than just set dressing to establish 
mood—it has mechanical effects you can combine with 
environmental components to create a more memorable 
encounter. Weather can impose circumstance penalties 
on certain checks, from -1 to —4 based on severity. 


FOG 


Fog imposes a circumstance penalty to visual Perception 
checks, depending on the thickness; it causes creatures 
viewed through significant amounts of fog to be 
concealed; and it cuts off all visibility at half a mile or 
less—possibly much less. Conditions limiting visibility 
to about a mile are called mist, and those that do so to 
about 3 miles are called haze. 


PRECIPITATION 


Precipitation includes rain as well as colder snow, sleet, 
and hail. Wet precipitation douses flames, and frozen 
precipitation can create areas of snow or ice on the 
ground. Drizzle or light snowfall has little mechanical 
effect beyond limited visibility. 


VisiBiLiTY 

Most forms of precipitation impose circumstance 
penalties on visual Perception checks. Hail often is sparser 
but loud, instead penalizing auditory Perception checks. 
Especially heavy precipitation, such as a downpour of 
rain or heavy snow, might make creatures concealed if 
they’re far away. 


FATIGUE 

Precipitation causes discomfort and fatigue. Anything 
heavier than drizzle or light snowfall reduces the 
time it takes for characters to become fatigued from 
overland travel to only 4 hours. Heavy precipitation 
can be dangerous in cold environments when characters 
go without protection. Soaked characters treat the 
temperature as one step colder (mild to severe, severe to 
extreme; see Temperature below). 


THUNDERSTORMS 
High winds 
many thunderstorms. There’s also a very small chance 


and heavy precipitation accompany 


DUNGEONS 

Dungeon environments, which include both ruins and 
contemporary buildings constructed in the wilderness, 
are a fairly common venue for adventures. As an 
environment, they combine urban features like doors and 
buildings (page 515) with features from an underground 
environment, and occasionally components from 
other environments. While underground dungeons are 
particularly common, you might also consider setting 
your adventure in a ruin reclaimed by the forest, with 
giant trees spreading their roots through the walls, or a 
ruin deep in a swamp, with bogs covering access to some 
of the ruin's hidden secrets. 


that a character might be struck by lightning during 
a storm. A lightning strike usually deals moderate 
electricity damage, or major electricity damage in a 
severe thunderstorm. 


TEMPERATURE 


Often, temperature doesn't impose enough of a 
mechanical effect to worry about beyond describing the 
clothing the characters need to wear to be comfortable. 
Particularly hot and cold weather can make creatures 
fatigued more quickly during overland travel and can 
cause damage if harsh enough, as shown in Table 10-13 
on page 518. 

Appropriate cold-weather gear (such as the winter 
clothing) can negate the damage from severe cold 
or reduce the damage from extreme cold to that of 
particularly severe cold. 


WIND 


Wind imposes a circumstance penalty on auditory 
Perception checks depending on its strength. It also 
interferes with physical ranged attacks such as arrows, 
imposing a circumstance penalty to attack rolls involving 
such weapons, and potentially making attacks with them 
impossible in powerful windstorms. Wind snuffs out 
handheld flames; lanterns protect their flame from the 
wind, but particularly powerful winds can extinguish 
these as well. 


Moving iN Wino 

Wind is difficult or greater difficult terrain when Flying. 
Moving in wind of sufficient strength requires a Maneuver 
in Flight action, and fliers are blown away on a critical 
failure or if they don’t succeed at a minimum of one such 
check each round. 

Even on the ground, particularly strong winds might 
require a creature to succeed at an Athletics check to 
move, knocking the creature back and prone on a critical 
failure. On such checks, Small creatures typically take a 
-1 circumstance penalty, and Tiny creatures typically take 
a —2 penalty. 


‘EQUIPMENT 


ca 


SPELLS 
Gt 


a 


. THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 
GAME 
(OC 
GAME 

| MASTERING 


AY 


FTING 
EASURE 


veny NH ey e ue 


TABLE 10-13: TEMPERATURE EFFECTS 


Category Temperature 
Incredible cold -80° F or colder 
Extreme cold -79° F to -20° F 
Severe cold -21° F to 12° F 
Mild cold TS [P Wo 92E 
Normal 33° F to 94° F 
Mild heat 95° F* to 104° F* 
Severe heat 105° F* to 114° F 
Extreme heat 115° F to 139° F 


Incredible heat 140° F or warmer 
* Adjust temperatures down by 15° in areas of high humidity. 


NATURAL DISASTERS 

Climate and environmental features can be a hindrance 
or long-term threat, but natural disasters represent acute 
danger, especially to those directly exposed to their fury. 
The damage in the following sections uses the categories in 
Table 10-11: Environmental Damage on page 512. 


AVALANCHES 


Though the term avalanche specifically refers to a 
cascading flow of ice and snow down a mountain’s slope, 
the same rules work for landslides, mudslides, and other 
similar disasters. Avalanches of wet snow usually travel 
up to 200 feet per round, though powdery snow can 
travel up to 10 times faster. Rockslides and mudslides 
are slower, sometimes even slow enough that a character 
might be able to outrun them. 

deals 
bludgeoning damage to creatures and objects in its path. 


An avalanche major or even massive 
These victims are also buried under a significant mass. 
Creatures caught in an avalanche's path can attempt 
a Reflex save; if they succeed, they take only half the 
bludgeoning damage, and if they critically succeed, they 


also avoid being buried. 


Bun. 

Buried creatures take minor bludgeoning damage each 
minute, and they potentially take minor cold damage 
if buried under an avalanche of snow. At the GM's 
discretion, creatures without a sufficient air pocket could 
also risk suffocation (page 478). A buried creature is 
restrained and usually can't free itself. 

Allies or bystanders can attempt to dig out a buried 
creature. Each creature digging clears roughly a 5-foot- 
by-5-foot square every 4 minutes with a successful 
Athletics check (or every 2. minutes on a critical success). 
Using shovels or other proper tools halves the time. 


BLIZZARDS 


Blizzards combine cold weather, heavy snow, and strong 
winds. They don’t pose a single direct threat as other 
disasters do; instead, the combination of these factors all 
at once poses a substantial impediment to characters. 


Fatigue Damage 

2 hours Moderate cold every minute 
4 hours Minor cold every 10 minutes 
4 hours Minor cold every hour 

4 hours None 

8 hours None 

4 hours None 

4 hours Minor fire every hour 

4 hours Minor fire every 10 minutes 

2 hours Moderate fire every minute 


COLLAPSES 


Collapses and cave-ins occur when caverns or buildings 
fall, dumping tons of rock or other material on those 
caught below or inside them. Creatures under the 
collapse take major or massive bludgeoning damage and 
become buried, just as with an avalanche. Fortunately, 
collapses don’t spread unless they weaken the overall 
integrity of the area and lead to further collapses. 


EARTHQUAKES 


Earthquakes often cause other natural disasters in the 
form of avalanches, collapses, floods, and tsunamis, but 
they also present unique threats such as fissures, soil 
liquefaction, and tremors. 


Fissures 

Fissures and other ground ruptures can destabilize 
structures, but more directly they lead to creatures taking 
bludgeoning damage from falling into a fissure. 


SoL LIQUEFACTION 

Liquefaction occurs when granular particles shake to 
the point where they temporarily lose their solid form 
and act as liquids. When this happens to soil, it can 
cause creatures and even whole buildings to sink into 
the ground. You can use the earthquake spell for more 
specific rules, though that spell represents only one 
particular kind of localized quake. 


TREMORS 

Tremors knock creatures prone, causing them to fall or 
careen into other objects, which can deal bludgeoning 
damage appropriate to the severity of the quake. 


FLOODS 


Though more gradual floods can damage structures and 
drown creatures, flash floods are similar to avalanches, 
except with a liquid mass instead of a solid one. Instead 
of burying creatures, a flash flood carries creatures and 
even massive objects away, buffeting the creatures and 
potentially drowning them. The drowning rules appear 
on page 478. 


SANDSTORMS 


Mild sandstorms and dust storms don’t present much 
more danger than a windy rainstorm, but they can cause 
damage to a creature’s lungs and spread diseases across 
long distances. Heavy sandstorms deal minor slashing 
damage each round to those exposed to the sand, force 
creatures to hold their breath to avoid suffocation, 
or both. 


TORNADOES 


In a tornado’s path, wind conditions impose severe 
circumstance penalties, but creatures that would 
normally be blown away are instead picked up in the 
tornado’s funnel, where they take massive bludgeoning 
damage from flying debris as they rise through the cone 
until they are eventually expelled (taking bludgeoning 
damage from falling). 

Tornadoes usually travel around 300 feet per round 
(roughly 30 miles per hour). They normally travel a few 
miles before dissipating. Some tornadoes are stationary 
or travel much faster. 


TSUNAMIS 


Tsunamis present many of the same dangers as flash 
floods but are much larger and more destructive. Tsunami 
waves can reach 100 feet or more in height, wrecking 
buildings and creatures alike with massive bludgeoning 
damage from both the wave itself and debris pulled up 
along its path of destruction. 


VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS 


Volcanic eruptions can contain any combination of ash, 
lava bombs, lava flows, pyroclastic flows, and vents. 


Asu 


Ash from volcanic eruptions is hot enough to cause 
minor fire damage each minute. It limits visibility like 
a thick fog and can make air unbreathable, requiring 
characters to hold their breath or suffocate (page 478). 
Ash clouds generate ash lightning strikes, which typically 
deal moderate electricity damage but are very unlikely 
to hit an individual creature. Ash buildup on the ground 
creates areas of uneven ground, difficult terrain, or 
greater difficult terrain, and ash in the atmosphere can 
block the sun for weeks or even months, leading to colder 
temperatures and longer winters. 


Lava Bomes 

Pressure can launch lava into the air that falls as lava 
bombs: masses of lava that solidify as they fly and shatter 
on impact, dealing at least moderate bludgeoning damage 
and moderate fire damage. 


Lava Flows 
Lava flows are an iconic volcanic threat; they usually 
move between 5 and 60 feet per round over normal 


ground, so characters can often outrun them. However, 
flows can move up to 300 feet per round in a steep 
volcanic tube or channel. Lava emanates heat that deals 
minor fire damage even before it comes into contact 
with creatures, and immersion in lava deals massive fire 
damage each round. 


Pyrocvastic Flows 

Mixes of hot gases and rock debris, pyroclastic flows 
spread much faster than lava, sometimes more than 
4,000 feet per round. While cooler than the hottest lava, 
pyroclastic flows are capable of overwhelming entire 
settlements. They work like avalanches but deal half of 
their damage as fire damage. 


VENTS 

Steam vents shoot from the ground, dealing moderate 
fire damage or more in a wide column. Acidic and 
poisonous gases released from beneath the surface can 
create wide areas of hazardous terrain that deals at least 
minor acid or poison damage. 


WILDFIRES 


Wildfires travel mainly along a front moving in a single 
direction. In a forest, the front can advance up to 70 
feet per round (7 miles per hour). They can move up 
to twice as fast across plains due to a lack of shade 
and the relatively low humidity. Embers from the fire, 
carried by winds and rising hot air, can scatter, forming 
spot fires as far as 10 miles away from the main 
wildfire. Wildfires present three main threats: flames, 
heat, and smoke. 


FLAMES 

Flames are hazardous terrain, usually dealing moderate 
damage and potentially setting a character on fire, 
dealing moderate persistent fire damage. The flames 
from a small fire are often less dangerous than the 
advancing heat from the front of a large fire. 


Heat 

Wildfires increase the temperature in advance of the front, 
reaching nearly 1,500° F at the fire’s arrival, as hot as 
some lava. This begins as minor fire damage every round 
at a reasonable distance from the front and increases to 
massive fire damage for someone within the wildfire. 


SMOKE 

Wind can carry smoke far in front of the wildfire 
itself. Smoke imposes a circumstance penalty to visual 
Perception checks, depending on the thickness. It causes 
creatures viewed through significant amounts of smoke 
to be concealed, and it cuts off all visibility at half a mile 
or less. Near or within the wildfire, the combination of 
smoke and heated air require characters to hold their 
breath or suffocate (page 478). 


^ d " 
EQUIPMENT 
oe 
SPELLS 
Lu 


NI 


.. THE AGE OF 
LosT OMENS 


- PLAYING THE 

GAME 

_ OO 
GAME 

| MASTERING 


^ 


— vany (DEME — “> i" ^ 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 4 
a LALAALL, LL - a "Ul el 


HAZARDS 


Dungeons are rife with devious traps meant to protect the treasures within. These range 
from mechanical devices that shoot darts or drop heavy blocks to magic runes that 


explode into bursts of flame. In addition to traps, adventurers may stumble into other 
types of hazards, including naturally occurring environmental hazards, mysterious 


hauntings, and more. 


MM ig gg as 


DETECTING A HAZARD 

Every hazard has a trigger of some kind that sets its 
dangers in motion. For traps, this could be a mechanism 
like a trip wire or a pressure plate, while for an 
environmental hazard or haunt, the trigger may simply be 
proximity. When characters approach a hazard, they have 
a chance of finding the trigger area or mechanism before 
triggering the hazard. They automatically receive a check 
to detect hazards unless the hazards require a minimum 
proficiency rank to do so. 

During exploration, determine whether the party 
detects a hazard when the PCs first enter the general area 
in which it appears. If the hazard doesn’t list a minimum 
proficiency rank, roll a secret Perception check against 
the hazard’s Stealth DC for each PC. For hazards with a 
minimum proficiency rank, roll only if someone is actively 
searching (using the Search activity while exploring or 
the Seek action in an encounter), and only if they have the 
listed proficiency rank or higher. Anyone who succeeds 
becomes aware of the hazard, and you can describe what 
they notice. 

Magical hazards that don’t have a minimum proficiency 
rank can be found using detect magic, but this spell 
doesn’t provide enough information to understand or 
disable the hazard—it only reveals the hazard’s presence. 
Determining a magical hazard’s properties thoroughly 
enough to disable it requires either the use of more 
powerful magic or a successful skill check, likely using 
Identify Magic or Recall Knowledge. Magical hazards 
with a minimum proficiency rank cannot be found with 
detect magic at all. 


TRIGGERING A HAZARD 

If the group fails to detect a hazard and the hazard’s 
trigger is a standard part of traveling (such as stepping 
on a floor plate or moving through a magical sensor 
while walking), the hazard’s reaction occurs. Hazards 
that would be triggered only when someone directly 
manipulates the environment—by opening a door, for 
example—use their reactions only if a PC explicitly takes 
that action. 


REACTION OR FREE ACTION 


Most hazards have reactions that occur when they’re 
triggered. For simple hazards, the reaction is the entirety 


MONSTERS AND HAZARDS 
The statistics for NPCs and monsters usually don't list their 
proficiency ranks. Most of the time, they don't need to deal 
with detecting or disabling hazards the way PCs do, so you 
don't need this information. However, if a PC resets a trap 
in a monster's path or plans to lure a monster into a hazard, 
you can improvise this information. 

For Perception, a monster is usually an expert at 3rd 
or 4th level, a master at 8th or 9th level, and legendary 
at 16th or 17th level. If the monster has Thievery listed in 
its skills, it has the highest proficiency possible for its level 
(trained at 1st, expert at 3rd, master at 7th, and legendary 
at 15th); otherwise, it’s untrained. Of course, an individual 
monster might deviate from these guidelines, especially if 
it's mindless or not very perceptive. 


of the hazard's effect. For complex hazards, the reaction 
may also cause the hazard to roll initiative, either starting 
a combat encounter or joining one already in progress, 
and the hazard continues to pose a threat over multiple 
rounds. Some hazards have a triggered free action instead 
of a reaction; for instance, quicksand can suck down 
multiple creatures per round. 


ROUTINE 


A complex hazard usually follows a set of preprogrammed 
actions called a routine. Once triggered, the hazard first 
performs its initial reaction; then, if the PCs are not yet 
in encounter mode, they should roll initiative. (If they're 
already in encounter mode, their initiative remains 
the same.) The hazard might tell you to roll initiative 
for it—in this case, the hazard rolls initiative using its 
Stealth modifier. 

After this happens, the hazard follows its routine each 
round on its initiative. The number of actions a hazard 
can take each round, as well as what they can be used for, 
depend on the hazard. 


RESETTING A HAZARD 


Some hazards can be reset, allowing them to be triggered 
again. This can occur automatically, as for quicksand, 
whose surface settles after 24 hours, or manually, like a 
hidden pit, whose trapdoor must be closed for the pit to 
become hidden again. 


DISABLING A HAZARD 

The most versatile method for deactivating traps is the 
Disable a Device action of the Thievery skill, though most 
mechanical traps can also simply be smashed, and magical 
traps can usually be counteracted. Environmental hazards 
often can be overcome with Nature or Survival, and haunts 
can often be overcome with Occultism or Religion. The 
specific skill and DC required to disable a hazard are listed 
in the hazard’s stat block. Like using Disable a Device, 
using these skills to disable a trap is a 2-action activity with 
the same degrees of success, though the activity might have 
different traits determined by the GM. As with detecting 
a hazard, disabling a hazard might require a character to 
have a certain proficiency rank in the listed skill. 

Acharacter must first detect a hazard (or have it pointed 
out to them) to try to deactivate it. They can attempt to 
deactivate a hazard whether or not it has already been 
triggered, though some hazards no longer pose a danger 
once their reactions have occurred, especially if there is 
no way for them to be reset. 

For most hazards, a successful check for the listed 
skill against the DC in the stat block disables the hazard 
without triggering it. Any other means of deactivating the 
hazard are included in the hazard’s stat block, as are any 
additional steps required to properly deactivate it. A critical 
failure on any roll to disable a hazard triggers it, including 
a critical failure on a roll to counteract a magical hazard. 

Some hazards require multiple successful checks to 
deactivate, typically because they have a particularly 
complicated component or have several discrete portions. 
For hazards with a complex component, a critical success 
on a check to disable the hazard counts as two successes 
on a single component. 


DAMAGING A HAZARD 


Rather than trying to carefully disable a hazard, a 
character might just smash it. Damaging a mechanical 
trap or another physical hazard works like damaging 
objects: the hazard reduces the damage it takes by its 
Hardness. In most cases, hitting the hazard also triggers 
it, as explained in Attacking a Hazard below. If a hazard’s 
Hit Points are reduced to its Broken Threshold (BT) or 
lower, the hazard becomes broken and can’t be activated, 
though it can still be repaired. If it’s reduced to 0 HP, it’s 
destroyed and can’t be repaired. (See page 272 in Chapter 
6 for more information on damaging objects.) 

Hazards’ AC, applicable saving throw modifiers, 
Hardness, HP, and BT are listed in their stat blocks. A 
hazard that doesn’t list one of these statistics can’t be 
affected by anything targeting that statistic. For example, a 
hazard that has HP but no BT can’t be broken, but can still 
be destroyed. Hazards are immune to anything an object 
is immune to unless specifically noted otherwise, and they 
can’t be targeted by anything that can’t target objects. 
Some hazards may have additional immunities, as well as 
resistances or weaknesses. 


Artackine A Hazaro 

If someone hits a hazard—especially if it’s a mechanical 
trap—they usually trigger it, though you might 
determine otherwise in some cases. An attack that breaks 
the hazard might prevent it from triggering, depending 
on the circumstances. If the hazard has multiple parts, 
breaking one part might still trigger the trap. For 
example, if a trap has a trip wire in one location and 
launches an attack from another location, severing the 
trip wire could still trigger the attack. Destroying a 
trap in one blow almost never triggers it. These rules 
also apply to most damaging spells or other effects in 
addition to attacks. 


Repairing A HAZARD 

You might allow a character to repair a damaged hazard 
to restore its functionality. You determine the specifics of 
this, since it can vary by trap. The Repair action might be 
insufficient if fixing the trap requires gathering scattered 
components or the like. If the item has a Reset entry, the 
character needs to do whatever is listed there, in addition 
to repairing the damage. 


COUNTERACTING A MAGICAL HAZARD 


Some magical hazards can be counteracted using dispel 
magic and the counteracting rules found on page 458. 
These hazards’ spell levels and counteract DCs are listed 
in their stat block. Counteracting a hazard otherwise 
works like using a skill check to disable the hazard. 


HAZARD EXPERIENCE 

Characters gain Experience Points for overcoming a 
hazard, whether they disable it, avoid it, or simply endure 
its attacks. If they trigger the same hazard later on, they 
don’t gain XP for the hazard again. The XP values for 
hazards of different levels also appear on page 508, but 
are repeated here for convenience. The XP for a complex 
hazard is equal to the XP for a monster of the same level, 
and the XP for a simple hazard is one-fifth of that. Hazards 
of a lower level than the party's level — 4 are trivial and 
award no XP. 


TABLE 10-14: HAZARD XP 
XP Award 
Level Simple Hazard Complex Hazard 
Party level - 4 2 XP 10 XP 
Party level - 3 3 XP 15 XP. 
Party level - 2 4 XP 20 XP 
Party level - 1 6 XP 30 XP. 
Party level 8 XP 40 XP 
Party level + 1 12 XP. 60 XP 
Party level + 2 16 XP 80 XP 
Party level + 3 24 XP 120 XP. 
Party level + 4 30 XP 150 XP 


EQUIPMENT 
ÉD 
SPELLS 
GS 
-THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


"v 9.0. 


GAME 
| MASTERING 


X 


-> 


| H RAFTING 


8 TREASURE 


IE eon. NONE A p SIT 


ATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
SEDE eed 


Jd —————— Áá 


HAZARDS BY NAME 
This chapters hazards are organized by level and 
complexity. If you need to look up a hazard by its name, 
use the following table. 


Hazard Name Level Complexity Page 
Armageddon orb 23 Simple 526 
Banshee'Às symphony 18 Complex 529 
Bloodthirsty urge 10 Simple 524 
Bottomless pit 9 Simple 524 
Darkside mirror 14 Complex 528 
Drowning pit 3 Complex 526 
Electric latch rune 3 Simple 523 
Fireball rune 5 Simple 524 
Frozen moment 17 Simple 525 
Hallucination powder trap 6 Simple 524 
Hammer of forbiddance 11 Simple 525 
Hidden pit 0 Simple 522 
Lava flume tube 10 Complex 528 
Pharaoh's ward 7 Simple 524 
Planar rift 13 Simple 525 
Poisoned dart gallery 8 Complex 528 
Poisoned lock 1 Simple 522 
Polymorph trap 12 Simple 525 
Quicksand 3 Complex 526 
Scythe blades 4 Simple 523 
Second chance 21 Simple 525 
Slamming door 1 Simple 523 
Spear launcher 2 Simple 523 
Spinning blade pillar 4 Complex 527 
Summoning rune | Complex 526 
Telekinetic swarm trap 12 Complex 528 
Vorpal executioner 19 Simple 525) 
Wheel of misery 6 Complex 527 
Yellow mold 8 Simple 524 


HAZARD FORMAT 

Hazards are presented in a stat block format similar to 
those used for monsters. A few notes regarding the format 
follow the sample stat block. 


HAZARD NAME 

[rears] 

Stealth This entry lists the Stealth modifier for a complex 
hazard's initiative or the Stealth DC to detect a simple 
hazard, followed by the minimum proficiency rank to detect 
the hazard (if any) in parentheses. If detect magic can be 
used to detect the hazard, this information is located here 
as well. 

Description This explains what the hazard looks like and 
might include special rules. 


HAZARD [LEVEL] 


Disable The DC of any skill checks required to disable the 
hazard are here; if the hazard can be counteracted, its spell 
level and counteract DC are listed in parentheses. 


AC the hazard's AC; Saving Throws the hazard's saves. Usually 
only haunts are subject to Will saves. 

Hardness the hazard's Hardness; HP the hazard's Hit Points, 
with its Broken Threshold in parentheses; Immunities the 
hazard's immunities; Weaknesses the hazard's weaknesses, 
if any; Resistances the hazard's resistances, if any 

Action Type Ð or € This is the reaction or free action the 
hazard uses; Trigger The trigger that sets off the hazard 
appears here; Effect For a simple hazard, this effect is often 
all the hazard does. For a complex hazard, this might also 
cause the hazard to roll initiative. 

Routine This entry describes what a complex hazard does on each 
of its turns during an encounter; the number in parentheses 
after the word "Routine" indicates how many actions the 
hazard can use each turn. Simple hazards don't have this entry. 

Action Any action the hazard can use appears here. Typically, 
this is a melee or ranged Strike. 

Reset If the hazard can be reset, that information is here. 


LEVEL 


The hazard's level indicates what level of party it's a good 
challenge for. If the hazard involves a toxin, curse, or other 


non-spell feature, that feature's level is the hazard's level. 


TRAITS 


The most notable hazard traits are trap (constructed to 
harm intruders), environmental (natural hazards), and 
haunt (spectral phenomena). Traps have a trait to indicate 
whether they're magical or mechanical. Hazards that have 
initiative and a routine have the complex trait. 


STEALTH OR STEALTH DC 


Complex hazards list their Stealth modifier, which they 
use for initiative, instead of their Stealth DC. If you need 
the DC, it’s equal to this modifier + 10. 


SIMPLE HAZARDS 


A simple hazard uses its reaction only once, after which 
its threat is over unless the hazard is reset. 


HIDDEN PIT_ HAZARD 0 


| MECHANICAL | 

E DC E O if the trapdoor is disabled or broken) 

Description A wooden trapdoor covers a pit that’s 10 feet 
square and 20 feet deep. 

Disable DC 12 Thievery to remove the trapdoor 

AC 10; Fort +1, Ref +1 

Trapdoor Hardness 3, Trapdoor HP 12 (BT 6); Immunities 
critical hits, object immunities, precision damage 

Pitfall > Trigger A creature walks onto the trapdoor; Effect 
The triggering creature falls in and takes falling damage 
(typically 10 bludgeoning damage). That creature can use 
the Grab an Edge reaction to avoid falling. 

Reset Creatures can still fall into the trap, but the trapdoor 
must be reset manually for the trap to become hidden again. 


GAME MASTERING 


POISONED LOCK HAZARD1 ELECTRIC LATCH RUNE HAZARD 3 
Stealth DC 17 (trained) Stealth DC 20 (trained) 


Description A spring-loaded, poisoned spine is hidden near 
the keyhole of a lock. Disabling or breaking the trap does 
not disable or break the lock. 

Disable DC 17 Thievery (trained) on the spring mechanism 

AC 15; Fort +8, Ref +4 

Hardness 6, HP 24 (BT 12); Immunities critical hits, object 
immunities, precision damage 

Spring 2 Trigger A creature tries to unlock or Pick the Lock; 
Effect A spine extends to Strike the triggering creature. 

Melee spine +13, Damage 1 piercing plus cladis poison 

Cladis Poison (poison) Saving Throw DC 19 Fortitude; Maximum 
Duration 4 hours; Stage 1 1d6 poison damage and drained 1 
(1 hour); Stage 2 2d6 poison damage and drained 2 (1 hour); 
Stage 3 3d6 poison damage and drained 2 (1 hour) 


SLAMMING DOOR HAZARD 1 

Stealth DC 17 (trained) 

Description Pressure-sensitive panels in the floor connect to a 
stone slab hidden in a hallway's ceiling. 

Disable DC 15 Thievery (trained) on the floor panels before 
the slab falls 

AC 16; Fort +10, Ref +2 

Hardness 5, HP 20 (BT 10); Immunities critical hits, object 
immunities, precision damage 

Slam Shut 2 Trigger Pressure is placed on any floor tile; Effect 
The door falls, closing off the hallway. The stone slab deals 
3d8 bludgeoning damage to anyone beneath or adjacent to 
the slab when it drops and pushes them out of its space in a 
random direction. A creature that succeeds at a DC 17 Reflex 
save takes no damage and rolls out of the way in a random 
direction. On a critical success, they can choose the direction. 

Lifting the fallen slab requires a successful DC 25 

Athletics check. Hitting the floor panels triggers the 
trap. The slab uses the same AC and saves as the 
trap, but it has Hardness 12, HP 48 (BT 24). 


SPEAR LAUNCHER HAZARD 2 

Stealth DC 20 (trained) 

Description A wall socket loaded with a 
spear connects to a floor tile in one 
5-foot square. 

Disable DC 18 Thievery (trained) on the floor 
tile or wall socket 

AC 18; Fort +11, Ref +3 

Hardness 8, HP 32 (BT 16); Immunities critical 
hits, object immunities, precision damage 

Spear 2 Trigger Pressure is applied to the 
floor tile; Effect The trap shoots a spear, 
making a Strike against the creature or 
object on the floor tile. 

Ranged spear +14, Damage 2d6+6 piercing 


Description An invisible rune imprinted on a door latch 
releases a powerful electric discharge. 

Disable DC 20 Thievery (expert) to scratch out the rune 
without allowing electricity to flow, or dispel magic (2nd 
level; counteract DC 18) to counteract the rune 

Electrocution 2 (arcane, electricity, evocation) Trigger A 
creature grasps the door latch directly or with a tool; Effect 
The trap deals 3d12 electricity damage to the triggering 
creature (DC 22 basic Reflex save). 


SCYTHE BLADES 

Stealth DC 23 (trained) 

Description Two blades, each hidden in a 15-foot-long ceiling 
groove, are both connected to a trip wire. 

Disable DC 21 Thievery (trained) to disable each blade 

AC 21; Fort +12, Ref +8 

Hardness 11, HP 44 (BT 22); Immunities critical hits, object 
immunities, precision damage 

Falling Scythes 2 Trigger The trip wire is pulled or severed; 
Effect Both blades swing down, each one Striking all 
creatures under the ceiling grooves. 

Melee scythe +17 (deadly 1d12), Damage 2d12+4 slashing; no 
multiple attack penalty 

Reset The trap resets after 15 minutes. 


HAZARD 4 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


GAME 


MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


OA Ja 


Tray 


THFIN DER CORE E EHDOK a 
RE bet le cae k 
FIREBALL RUNE HAZARDS 


| evocation | Fire | macica f trap | 


Stealth DC 24 (expert) 
Description An invisible rune creates an invisible, spherical 
magical sensor with a 20-foot radius. 


Disable DC 22 Thievery (expert) to erase the rune without 
triggering the sensor, or dispel magic (3rd level; counteract 
DC 20) to counteract the rune 

Fireball Ð (arcane, evocation, fire) Trigger A living creature 
enters the sensor area; Effect The rune detonates a fireball 
centered on the triggering creature's square. This is a 3rd- 
level fireball spell that deals 6d6 fire damage (DC 22 basic 
Reflex save). 


HALLUCINATION POWDER TRAP 

conn] me 

Stealth DC 24 (expert) 

Description A tube of hallucinogenic powder armed with a 
miniature explosive is connected to a doorknob or similar latch. 

Disable DC 26 Thievery (expert) to disable the hammer that 
strikes the percussion cap 

AC 24; Fort +0, Ref +0 

Hardness O, HP 1; Immunities critical hits, object immunities, 
precision damage 

Powder Burst 2 (mental, poison) Trigger The latch is opened 
or the tube is broken; Effect The tube explodes, spraying 
hallucinogenic powder in a 30-foot cone. Any creature in 
the cone must succeed at a DC 24 Will save or be confused 
for 1 round and take a -2 status penalty to Perception 
checks and saves against mental effects for 1d4 hours. On a 
critical failure, the penalty is instead -4. 


PHARAOH'S WARD 

wen [ ue ] 

Stealth DC 25 (expert) 

Description A curse is imbued on an entryway's threshold. 

Disable DC 27 Thievery (master) to painstakingly remove the 
lintel without triggering the magic, or dispel magic (Ath 
level; counteract DC 25) to counteract the rune 

Curse the Intruders 2 (curse, divine, necromancy) Trigger The 
seal on the tomb is broken from the outside; Effect Each living 
creature within 60 feet must succeed at a DC 23 Will save or 
be subjected to the pharaoh's curse. A cursed creature takes 
a -2 status penalty to Fortitude saves, and any natural or 
magical healing it receives is halved. The curse remains until 
removed by remove curse or similar magic. 

Reset The trap resets when the door is shut. 


YELLOW MOLD 

[exer ous] 

Stealth DC 28 (trained) 

Description Poisonous mold spores assault nearby creatures. 

Disable DC 26 Survival (expert) to remove the mold without 
triggering the spores 

AC 27: Fort +17, Ref +13 

HP 70; Immunities critical hits, object immunities, precision damage 


HAZARD 6 


HAZARD 7 


HAZARD 8 


Spore Explosion 2 Trigger A creature moves into the mold’s 
space or damages the mold. The mold can't use this reaction 
if it's in direct sunlight or if the damage was fire damage; 
Effect The triggering creature and all creatures within 10 
feet are exposed to yellow mold spores. 

Yellow Mold Spores (inhaled, poison) Any drained condition 
from the spores persists after the poison's duration ends; 
Saving Throw DC 26 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 
rounds; Stage 1 1d8 poison damage and drained 1 (1 round); 
Stage 2 2d8 poison damage and drained 2 (1 round); Stage 3 
3d8 poison damage and drained 3 (1 round) 


BOTTOMLESS PIT 

Dun [vec [ue] 

Stealth DC 30 (or O if the trapdoor is disabled or broken) or 
detect magic 

Description An iron trapdoor covers an infinitely deep 
10-foot-square pit. 

Disable DC 28 Thievery (trained) to remove the trapdoor 

AC 28; Fort +12, Ref +12 

Trapdoor Hardness 9, Trapdoor HP 36 (BT 18); Immunities 
critical hits, object immunities, precision damage 

Infinite Pitfall > Trigger A creature walks onto the trapdoor; Effect 
The triggering creature falls in and continues to fall, potentially 
forever. That creature can try to Grab an Edge to avoid falling 
(page 472). The DC to Climb the walls or Grab an Edge is 26. 

The pit contains many handholds, so the falling creature 

can try to Grab an Edge again every 6 seconds. If the 
creature succeeds, it can start to Climb out from that point 
(though it might be a very long climb, depending on how 
far the creature fell). Since the creature falls endlessly, it 
can rest and even prepare spells while falling, though items 
dropped while falling are usually lost forever. 

Reset The trap still causes creatures to fall forever if they fall 
in, but the trapdoor must be reset manually for the trap to 
become hidden again. 


BLOODTHIRSTY URGE 
E DC 31 (trained) 
Description An object haunted by the echoes of a vicious mind 
attempts to kill someone who comes near. 
Disable DC 29 Religion (master) to exorcise the spirit or DC 31 
Diplomacy (expert) to talk it down 
Quietus 2 (death, emotion, fear, illusion, mental, occult) 
Trigger A creature moves within 10 feet of the haunted 
object; Effect The haunt takes control of the triggering 
creature, forcing it to attack itself. The creature must 
attempt a DC 29 Will save. 
Critical Success The target is unaffected. 
Success The target makes a Strike against itself and 
automatically hits; the target also becomes frightened 1. 
Failure The target makes a Strike against itself and 
automatically scores a critical hit; the target also 
becomes frightened 2. 
Critical Failure The target attempts a Fortitude save. If the target 


HAZARD 9 


HAZARD 10 


succeeds, it is subject to the effects of a failure instead. If the 
target fails, it is reduced to O HP and dies. 


HAMMER OF FORBIDDANCE HAZARD 11 


| macicaL | mechanica | Trap | 

Stealth DC 30 (expert) 

Description An enormous hammer at an edifice’s entrance 
swings down in an attempt to damage a creature entering 
an area, push it back, and prevent it from going any further. 

Disable DC 28 Thievery (expert) once on the hammer itself 
and once on its joint to prevent the hammer from swinging 

AC 32; Fort +24, Ref +15 

Hammer Hardness 22, Hammer HP 88 (BT 44); Joint Hardness 
16, Joint HP 64 (BT 32); Immunities critical hits, object 
immunities, precision damage 

Forbid Entry 2 (abjuration, divine) Trigger A creature attempts 
to enter through the entrance; Effect The hammer swings 
down, making a Strike against the triggering creature. 

Melee hammer +28, Damage 6d8+20 bludgeoning plus the 
target is knocked back 10 feet and must succeed at a DC 
30 Will save or be unable to enter the edifice through 
any entrance for 24 hours (on a critical hit, the target 
automatically fails the Will save); no multiple attack penalty 

Reset The trap resets over the course of the round, and is 
ready to swing again 1 round later. 


POLYMORPH TRAP 

Stealth DC 34 (trained) 

Description A Druidic glyph tries to transform a trespasser 
into an animal. 

Disable DC 32 Thievery (master) to drain the glyph's power 
harmlessly, or dispel magic (6th level; counteract DC 30) to 
counteract the glyph 

Baleful Polymorph 2 (primal, transmutation) Trigger A 
creature moves within 30 feet of the glyph without 
speaking the passphrase in Druidic; Effect The creature is 
targeted by baleful polymorph (DC 32 Will save). 


PLANAR RIFT HAZARD 13 

Stealth DC 35 (trained) 

Description A rift attempts to draw creatures into another 
plane (the GM chooses the specific plane). 

Disable DC 33 Thievery (master) to assemble a rift seal using 
objects strongly grounded to your plane, or dispel magic 
(7th level; counteract DC 31) to counteract the rift 

Into the Great Beyond 2 (conjuration, occult, teleportation) 
Trigger A creature moves within 10 feet of the rift; Effect The 
triggering creature and all creatures within 30 feet of the 
rift are drawn into another plane. Each creature can attempt 
a DC 33 Reflex save to avoid this fate. 


HAZARD 12 


HAZARD 17 


Description Warding magic attempts to trap intruders or 
would-be thieves in a disrupted time flow. 

Disable DC 38 Thievery (legendary) to rapidly disassemble 
the spell’s myriad components in a single blink of an eye; 
or dispel magic (8th level; counteract DC 36) to counteract 
the trap before it triggers or to counteract the effect on one 
creature after the trap is triggered 

Adrift in Time 2 (occult, transmutation) Trigger A creature 
touches the warded object or area; Effect The triggering 
creature and all creatures within 30 feet are trapped 
in a disrupted time flow (DC 38 Fortitude negates). The 
creatures’ minds move so quickly that each round seems to 
last a century, but their bodies and magical energies move 
so slowly that they can't use any actions except Recall 
Knowledge. An affected creature must attempt a DC 36 Will 
saving throw against a warp mind spell immediately and 
again for every minute of real time that passes while the 
creature is trapped in the frozen moment. This effect has an 
unlimited duration but can be counteracted. 


VORPAL EXECUTIONER 


MECHANICAL | TRAP | 

Stealth DC 43 (expert) 

Description A wickedly sharp saw blade descends and travels 
along grooves in a complex path throughout the room, 
attempting to decapitate everyone within. 

Disable DC 41 Thievery (expert) at four different junctions to 
jam all the saw blade’s possible paths, preventing it from 
traveling through the room 

AC 43; Fort +32, Ref +32 

Hardness 30; HP 120 (BT 60) per junction; Immunities critical 
hits, object immunities, precision damage 

Total Decapitation 2 Trigger A creature attempts to exit 
the room; Effect The saw blade travels along its path, 
making one Strike against each creature in the room, 
twisting and varying its height for a maximum chance of 
beheading its targets. 

Melee saw blade +40 (deadly d12, death), Damage 6d12+25 
slashing plus decapitation; no multiple attack penalty 

Decapitation On a critical hit, a target must succeed at a DC 
39 Fortitude save or be decapitated, dying instantly unless 
it can survive without a head. 

Reset The trap resets over the course of the round and can be 
triggered again 1 round later. 


SECOND CHANCE 
Stealth DC 44 (legendary) 
Description Powerful warding magic tied to an object or 
location tries to regress the ages of a creature and its allies. 
Disable DC 46 Thievery (legendary) to take apart the spell one 
tiny piece at a time, with eyes closed, while recalling every 
vivid life memory in order, starting from the earliest memory 
In the Beginning 2 (divine, transmutation) Trigger A creature 
tries to steal the object or intrude upon the location. If 
someone uses a proxy or dupe for the theft or intrusion, the 


HAZARD 19 


HAZARD ?1 


| 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 
THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 

GAME 
(OC 
GAME 

| MASTERING 


AY 


B TREASURE 


Al pp 


ee ne sm 


CORE RULEBOOK 42 
" a eed 


UPGRADED SUMMONING RUNES 

You can make a summoning rune of nearly any level. It 
summons a creature of a level equal to the traps level. 
Use Table 10-5: DCs by Level on page 503 to determine 
the Thievery DC and spell DC, using the traps level and 
applying a hard adjustment (*2). The Stealth modifier for 
the trap is equal to this number - 10. Stronger summoning 
runes usually require expert proficiency or better in 
Perception to find, and they might require a higher 
proficiency rank in Thievery to disable. 


trap unerringly targets the true perpetrator or perpetrators 
at any distance—even across planes; Effect The triggering 
creature and up to five coconspirators instantly revert to 
infants, losing all memories, class abilities, and other skills 
acquired during their lives (DC 44 Fortitude negates). 
Reversing this effect is nearly impossible, requiring 
powerful magic such as wish. 


ARMAGEDDON ORB 

Stealth DC 10 or detect magic 

Description A roiling red orb, forged from a drop of the god 
Rovagug’s blood, rains fire from the sky when a specified 
condition is met. 

Disable DC 48 Thievery (legendary) to imbue thieves' tools 
with aspects representing Asmodeus and Sarenrae and use 
them to drain away the orb’s power over 10 minutes; the 
character attempting this check takes 5 fire damage each 
round until the orb is depleted 

Burn It All 2 (death, divine, evocation, fire) Trigger A special 
condition set by the trap's creator occurs; this is typically 
the event of their death; Effect Fire rains from the sky in a 
100-mile radius, dealing 10d6 fire damage to creatures and 
objects in the area. Each creature or object can attempt a DC 
46 basic Reflex save. Any creature reduced to O Hit Points 
by this damage dies instantly. This is not enough damage to 
completely burn away a forest or level an entire mountain 
or city, but it typically kills most creatures in the area. 


HAZARD 23 


COMPLEX HAZARDS 

Complex hazards function similarly to monsters during 
encounters, as they roll initiative and have actions of their 
own, though these are usually automated in a routine. 


SUMMONING RUNE HAZARD 1 

Stealth +7 (trained) 

Description A cloud of invisible magical sensors in a 10-foot 
radius surrounds an invisible wall or floor rune the size of 
the creature to be summoned. 


Summon Monster 2 (arcane, conjuration, summon) Trigger 
A creature enters the cloud of magical sensors; Effect 
This trap summons a specific level 1 creature, determined 
when the trap is created. The creature rolls initiative and 
remains for 2d6 rounds, after which the spell ends and 
the creature disappears. The creature also disappears if 
someone disables the trap before the duration expires. The 
summoned creature can use 3 actions each round and can 
use reactions, unlike most summoned creatures. 

Reset The trap resets each day at dawn. 


DROWNING PIT 

EZCHETTNESI 

Stealth +10 (trained); DC 22 (expert) to notice the water 
spouts once the pit opens 

Description A trapdoor covers a 10-foot-square pit that's 30 
feet deep and has 5 feet of water at the bottom. Four water 
spouts in the walls connect to hidden water tanks. Each 
water spout extends out of a different wall, 6 inches from 
the top of the pit. 

Disable DC 18 Thievery (trained) to seal each water spout, 
DC 22 Thievery (trained) to open the trapdoor, or DC 22 
Athletics to Force Open the trapdoor 

AC 19; Fort +8, Ref +5 

Trapdoor Hardness 15, Trapdoor HP 60 (BT 30); Spout 
Hardness 8, Spout HP 32 (BT 16); Immunities critical hits, 
object immunities, precision damage 

Pitfall > Trigger A creature walks onto the trapdoor; Effect 
The triggering creature falls in and takes damage from the 
fall, reduced by 5 feet for falling into the water (typically 12 
bludgeoning damage). A creature can Grab an Edge to avoid 
falling (page 472). The trapdoor then slams shut, and the 
hazard rolls initiative. 

Routine (4 actions) The trap loses 1 action each turn for each 
disabled water spout. On each of the trap's actions, a spout 
pours water, increasing the depth of the water by 5 feet. 
Once the pit is full of water, the pit stops using actions, but 
creatures in the pit begin drowning (page 478). 

Reset The trap can be reset if the door is manually reengaged 
and the water tanks refilled; it can be reset without draining 
the pit, but doing so renders it less effective. 


QUICKSAND 

fover | ewone | 

Stealth +12 (trained) (or -10 and no minimum proficiency if the 
surface is disturbed) 

Description A 15-foot-wide patch of water and sand attempts 
to submerge creatures that step onto it. 

Disable DC 18 Survival (trained) to disturb the surface 

Submerge € Trigger A Huge or smaller creature walks onto 
the quicksand; Effect The triggering creature sinks into the 
quicksand up to its waist. The quicksand rolls initiative if it 
hasn't already. 


HAZARD 3 


HAZARD 3 


Disable DC 15 Acrobatics to approach without triggering the 
trap followed by DC 17 Thievery (trained) to erase the rune, or 
dispel magic (1st level; counteract DC 15) to counteract the rune 


Routine (1 action) On its initiative, the quicksand pulls down 
each creature within it. A creature that was submerged 
up to its waist becomes submerged up to its neck, and a 


creature that was submerged up to its neck is pulled under 
and has to hold its breath to avoid suffocation (page 478). 
A creature in the quicksand can attempt a DC 20 
Athletics check to Swim to either raise itself by one step 
if its submerged to its neck or worse, or to move 5 feet if 
its submerged only up to its waist. On a critical failure, the 
creature is pulled down one step. A creature that Swims out 
of the quicksand escapes the hazard and is prone in a space 
adjacent to the quicksand patch. Other creatures can Aid the 
creature, typically by using a rope or similar aid, or attempt 
to pull the creature out with their own DC 20 Athletics check, 
with the same results as if the creature attempted the check. 
Reset The hazard still submerges anyone who walks in, but 
the surface doesn't become hidden again until it settles 
over the course of 24 hours. 


SPINNING BLADE PILLAR 

Stealth +11 (trained) or DC 26 (expert) to notice the control panel 

Description A metal pole with three razor-sharp spinning 
blades is hidden in the floor, connected to trigger plates in up 
to eight floor tiles and a hidden control panel within 30 feet. 

Disable DC 21 Thievery (trained) twice on the pillar, or DC 19 
Thievery (expert) once on the control panel deactivates the 
whole trap. Breaking the control panel prevents anyone 
from disabling the trap using the control panel and prevents 
the trap from deactivating automatically (see Reset below). 

AC 21; Fort +10, Ref +12 

Pillar Hardness 12, Pillar HP 48 (BT 24); Panel Hardness 
5, Panel HP 20 (BT 10); Immunities critical hits, object 
immunities, precision damage 

Rising Pillar 2 Trigger A creature steps on one of the trapped 
floor tiles; Effect The trap pops up in a grid intersection 
and makes a spinning blade Strike against one adjacent 
creature (if any), then rolls initiative. 

Routine (3 actions) The trap uses its first action to 
make a spinning blade Strike against each 
adjacent creature, its second action to move 
straight in a random direction (roll 1d4 to 
determine the direction), and its third 
action to make a spinning blade Strike 
against each adjacent creature. This trap 
doesn't take a multiple attack penalty. 

Speed 10 feet 

Melee *> spinning blade +12, Damage 
2d10+5 slashing 

Reset The trap deactivates and resets 
after 1 minute. 


HAZARD 4 


WHEEL OF MISERY HAZARD 6 

| COMPLEX | WAGICAL f MECHANICAL | TRAP | 

Stealth +16 (expert) to detect the 
magical sensor; noticing the wheel 
has a DC of 0 

Description An ornate wheel set into 
a wall-divided into six segments with 


colored runes on each-is controlled by a magical sensor 
that detects any creature within 100 feet in front of it. 

Disable DC 26 Thievery (expert) on the wheel to stop it from 
spinning, DC 22 Thievery (master) to erase each rune, or 
dispel magic (4th level; counteract DC 22) to counteract 
each rune 

AC 24; Fort +15, Ref +13 

Hardness 14, HP 56 (BT 28); Immunities critical hits, object 
immunities, precision damage 

Wheel Spin 2 Trigger A creature enters the sensor's detection 
area; Effect The wheel begins to spin and rolls initiative. 

Routine (2 actions) On its initiative, the trap uses its first action 
to spin, then stops. Roll 1d6 to determine which segment is 
topmost when the wheel stops spinning. The wheel uses its 
second action to replicate the spell listed for that segment 
(3rd level, DC 24, spell attack roll +14). This spell's target 
is centered on or otherwise includes the nearest creature 
in the area. This increases the spell’s range to 100 feet if 
necessary. Any spell cast by this trap is arcane. 
1 sleep 
2 paralyze 
3 lightning bolt (100-foot line) 
4 blindness 
5 acid arrow 
6 ray of enfeeblement 

Reset The trap deactivates and resets if 1 minute passes 
without any creature moving within range of its sensor. 


GAME MASTERING 


f INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES 8 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


98. 


GAME 


MASTERING 


OO 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


Trae 


t) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
T rae e n M il 


POISONED DART GALLERY 
f copier | vecinas [re] 


Stealth +16 (expert) or DC 31 (master) to notice the control panel 
Description Countless holes to launch poison darts from line 


a long hallway with a hidden control panel on the far end. 


HAZARD 8 


The creature might suffocate if covered in lava (page 478). Lava 
from the previous round hardens fully at the start of the trap's 
turn, effectively raising the floor of the room. Once the room is 
full of lava, the trap stops taking actions, but creatures in the 
room remain stuck until the floor opens and the trap resets. 


Disable DC 21 Thievery (expert) on the control panel 
deactivates the trap 

AC 27; Fort +13, Ref +17 

Hardness 14; HP 56 (BT 28) to destroy the control panel and 
disable the trap; Immunities critical hits, object immunities, 
precision damage 

Dart Volley 2 Trigger A creature enters the hallway or 
ends its turn in the hallway; Effect The trap makes a 
poisoned dart Strike against the triggering creature, then 
rolls initiative. 

Routine (1 action) The trap launches one dart against every 
creature in the gallery as 1 action. Because it launches darts 
continuously, the trap can also use the Continuous Barrage 
free action (see below) to launch darts at each creature 
during that creature's turn. 

Ranged poisoned dart +21, Damage 3d4 piercing plus flesset 
poison; no multiple attack penalty 

Continuous Barrage © Trigger A creature within the active 
gallery finishes an action; Effect The trap makes a poisoned 
dart Strike against the triggering creature. 

Flesset Poison (poison) Saving Throw DC 22 Fortitude; 
Maximum Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 1d6 poison damage and 
clumsy 1 (1 round); Stage 2 2d6 poison damage and clumsy 2 
(1 round); Stage 3 3d6 poison damage and clumsy 3 (1 round) 

Reset The trap deactivates and resets after 1 minute. 


HAZARD 10 


LAVA FLUME TUBE 

| compex | MECHANICAL TRAP | 

Stealth +19 (trained) 

Description Four gated channels carved into stone allow lava 
to flow into a 15-foot-tall room; the floor can withdraw to 
allow the hardened lava to fall into a chamber beneath. 

Disable DC 29 Thievery (expert) to block a channel, or DC 31 
Thievery (master) to release the floor latch and escape to 
the chamber below 

AC 30; Fort +20, Ref +16 

Channel Hardness 12, Channel HP 48 (BT 24) to destroy a 
channel gate (this prevents that channel from being disabled 
and stops the trap from resetting); Floor Hardness 18; Floor 
HP 72 (BT 36); Immunities critical hits, object immunities, 
precision damage 

Flume Activation 2 Trigger A creature tries to leave the room; 
Effect The exits seal instantly and the trap rolls initiative. 

Routine (4 actions) The trap loses 1 action per disabled channel 
each turn. On each action, a different channel spews lava, 
dealing 4d6 fire damage to each creature within 10 feet of 
the channel (DC 27 basic Reflex save), and increasing the 
depth of the lava in the room by 1 foot (4 feet per round if 
all the channels are active). 

A creature that starts its turn in lava takes 8d6 fire damage 

and is immobilized until it Escapes the hardening lava (DC 27). 


Reset The trap deactivates and resets after 1 hour by withdrawing 
the floor, cracking and dumping the hardened lava (and any 
creatures trapped inside) into the chamber. Creatures fall 40 
feet, taking falling damage (typically 17 bludgeoning damage). 


TELEKINETIC SWARM TRAP HAZARD 12 
| compex | MacicaL | MECHANICAL | TRAP | 

Stealth +24 (expert) 

Description Three innocuous decorations instilled with 


telekinetic magic pull objects and pieces of the room itself into 
spinning clouds of debris that attack all creatures in the room. 

Disable DC 27 Thievery (expert) to take apart a telekinetic 
cloud, DC 32 Thievery (master) to disable each telekinetic 
decoration, or dispel magic (6th level; counteract DC 30) to 
counteract each telekinetic decoration 

AC 33; Fort +24, Ref +19 

Hardness 22, HP 88 (BT 44) per telekinetic cloud 

Agitate Ð (arcane, evocation) Trigger A creature stays in the 
room for at least 6 seconds; Effect Each telekinetic decoration 
constructs a cloud of objects in the room (three clouds total) 
and the trap rolls initiative. The creatures in the room when 
the trap is triggered become the traps targets, regardless of 
whether they leave the room or other creatures later enter 
the room. Each decoration targets a different creature if 
possible. A target creature that moves at least 1 mile from 
the trap ceases being a target, at which point the decoration 
designates a new target. 

Routine (9 actions) Each decoration uses 3 of the trap's actions 
each turn, and the trap loses 3 actions each turn for every 
decoration that is disabled. A decoration uses its first action 
to move its cloud of objects up to 200 feet, its second action 
to make the objects Strike, and its third action to add more 
objects to the cloud, increasing its damage by 1d12 (to a 
maximum of 4d12+10). If a decoration's cloud is already at 
maximum damage, it does nothing with its third action. 

If a decoration's cloud has been destroyed, the decoration 
instead spends its first action to create a new cloud of objects 
inside the room (using the starting damage value) and then its 
second and third actions to have the cloud move and Strike. 

Melee *9 objects +24, Damage 2d12+10 bludgeoning 

Reset The trap deactivates and resets 10 minutes after it has 
no target creatures (because the creatures either moved too 
far away or died). 


DARKSIDE MIRROR 


| compuex J macicar | MechanicaL | TRaP | 

Stealth +24 (master) to notice it isn't a regular mirror 

Description A magic mirror replaces characters with evil 
mirror duplicates from another dimension. 

Disable DC 34 Thievery (legendary) to retrieve a creature 
from the other dimension within 10 minutes of the switch 


HAZARD 14 


(possible only if their mirror duplicate is dead), DC 39 
Thievery (master) to permanently disable the mirror once 
all mirror duplicates are dead, or dispel magic (7th level; 
counteract DC 32) to counteract the mirror for 1 minute and 
prevent additional replacements during that time 

AC 34; Fort +25, Ref +20 

Hardness 1, HP 4 (BT 2), the mirror can’t be damaged while 
any mirror duplicate is alive 

Reflection of Evil 22 (arcane, conjuration, teleportation) 
Trigger A non-evil creature is reflected in the mirror; Effect 
The mirror absorbs the creature into the mirror, replacing it 
with an evil mirror duplicate (DC 34 Reflex to avoid being 
absorbed into the mirror), and rolls initiative. 

Routine (1 action) The mirror absorbs another reflected 
creature into the mirror and replaces it with a mirror 
duplicate. Mirror duplicates attack on their own initiative, 
using the same statistics as the original creature, but with 
an evil alignment (changing only abilities that shift with the 
alignment change). A mirror duplicate can spend 3 actions 
in contact with the mirror to return to its original dimension 
and release the creature it duplicated, but most mirror 
duplicates prefer not to. 

Reset The mirror is always ready to absorb creatures into the 
other dimension. Ten minutes after a creature is sucked 
into the mirror, if an ally doesn't rescue the creature with 
Thievery, it reaches the other dimension, where it might be 
captured or killed. In the mirror dimension, it counts as a 
mirror duplicate, so the denizens of the other dimension 
cant destroy the mirror on their side while the absorbed 
creature is there. These dimensions are alternate realities, 
not planes, so even spells like plane shift can't reach them. 


BANSHEE'S SYMPHONY 

| COMPLEX | MAGICAL | TRAP | 

Stealth +30 (legendary) 

Description A magically contagious wail of the banshee spell 
is trapped in the larynx of an invisible, mummified elf. 

Disable DC 42 Thievery (master) to pierce the invisible larynx 
so precisely that the magic releases in a trickle before the 
trap activates, DC 44 Thievery (legendary) three times to 
deconstruct the larynx while the trap is active in such a 
way that it tears the spell apart, or spell DC 38 (Sth level) to 
counteract the wail of the banshee before the trap activates 

Scream 2 Trigger Three or more living creatures remain 
within 100 feet of the trap for 6 seconds or longer; Effect 
The trap releases an arcane wail of the banshee (DC 40) with 
a 100-foot-radius emanation instead of 40 feet, targeting all 
living creatures in the area, and rolls initiative. 

Routine (1 action) The trap uses its action to force one random 
creature that failed its save against wail of the banshee last 
turn to emit a wail of the banshee with the same statistics 
as the initial one. The creature wails even if it is dead or 
unable to speak, no matter how far away from the trap it 
is. Unlike a casting of the spell, the drained condition from 
this traps wail of the banshee spells increases the targets' 
drained condition values. A creature that critically succeeds 
at any of its saves can still be affected by the trap on future 
rounds, but can’t be forced to wail by the trap. 


HAZARD 18 


Reset The trap ends when the trap is unable to make a 
creature scream (usually because no creature failed its save 
on the previous turn or because all creatures have critically 
succeeded in the past). It then resets over 24 hours, as a 
new scream builds up in the mummified larynx. 


GAME MASTERING 


INTRODUCTION 


ANCESTRIES & 
BACKGROUNDS 


CLASSES 
SKILLS 
FEATS 

EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


98. 
GAME 


MASTERING 


CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


APPENDIX 


| a” 


Prg 


A 


HFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK SO 


Y 
D 


CHAPTER II: CRAFTING & TREASURE 


Characters acquire treasure from the glittering hoards of their foes, as rewards for defending 
the innocent, and as favors from the grand personalities they treat with. As they progress 


through their adventures and improve their station in the world, characters collect ever 


more fabulous items from enchanted armor and weapons to spell-infused staves. 


iggy 


Treasure comes in all sorts of forms, from humble copper 
coins to incredibly powerful and valuable magic items. 
The GM controls the flow of items in the game as the PCs 
win them through adventures, find them for purchase, or 
acquire the formulas to make the items themselves. 

Items can support characters by granting bonuses to their 

statistics, allowing them to cast more spells, and creating 
all sorts of effects that can’t be achieved in any other way. 
Magic items come in many varieties, from enchanted swords 
that can harm even incorporeal undead to containers that 
can store a king’s ransom within a tiny space; many are 
permanent items that can be used repeatedly. Alchemical 
items, by contrast, are not intrinsically magical and are 
often consumed when used. Both have a variety of uses, 
from curing the sick to lighting foes on fire. Some treasures 
are neither magical nor alchemical, but are instead crafted 
from precious materials or using specialized expertise. 

This chapter provides rules for using different kinds 

of items encountered in the game. Rules for distributing 
treasure and creating treasure hoards can be found on 
page 508 of Chapter 10: Game Mastering. 

* Using Items, beginning below, describes how to 
activate items and explains the statistics for items. 

* Table 11—1: Treasure by Level, beginning on page 
536, lists the options for treasures, arranged by 
level, category, and Price. 

* The catalog of items, which begins on page 543, 
presents descriptions and rules for all sorts of 
different treasures that can appear in the game, 
sorted by category (page 533 has a list of key 
categories and subcategories). This also includes 
a section on precious materials found in the game 
world, which can give items unusual properties. 


USING ITEMS 

This section presents the rules for how characters use 
alchemical items, magic items, and other special items 
during play. 

The myriad types of items give their powerful boons in 
different ways. Some function automatically, while others 
need to be activated. While you need only swing a flaming 
greataxe to scorch foes, you need to invest a diadem of 
intellect for it to work, imbibe an elixir of life to heal 
yourself, activate slippers of spider climbing to walk up 
a wall, activate your mail of luck to protect yourself, and 
Cast a Spell using a magical scroll. 


CONSTANT ABILITIES 


Some magic items have abilities that always function. 
You don't have to use any actions to do anything special 
(beyond wearing and investing a worn item or wielding 
a held item) to make these abilities work. For example, 
an everburning torch always sheds light, and a flaming 
weapon deals fire damage every time it deals damage. 


INVESTING MAGIC ITEMS 
Certain magic items convey their magical benefits only 
when worn and invested using the Invest an Item activity, 
tying them to your inner potential. These items have the 
invested trait. Many invested items have constant abilities 
that function all the time or that always trigger when you 
use the item—but only when they're invested. If you don’t 
have an item invested, these abilities don't work. If an 
invested item can be activated, you must have invested 
the item to activate it. 

You can benefit from no more than 10 invested magic 
items each day. Because this limit is fairly high, and because 
it matters only for worn items, you probably won't need 
to worry about reaching the limit until higher levels, when 
you've acquired many useful magic items to wear. 

You can still gain the mundane benefits of an item if you 
don't invest it. A suit of +1 resilient armor still gives you 
its item bonus to AC when not invested, but it doesn't give 
its magical bonus to saving throws, and winged boots still 
protect your feet even though you can't activate them to 
fly. Entirely non-magical items don't need to be invested. 


INVEST AN ITEM 


You invest your energy in an item with the invested trait as 
you don it. This process requires 1 or more Interact actions, 
usually taking the same amount of time it takes to don the item. 
Once you've Invested the Item, you benefit from its constant 
magical abilities as long as you meet its other requirements 
(for most invested items, the only other requirement is that 
you must be wearing the item). This investiture lasts until you 
remove the item. 

You can invest no more than 10 items per day. If you remove 
an invested item, it loses its investiture. The item still counts 
against your daily limit after it loses its investiture. You reset 
the limit during your daily preparations, at which point you 
Invest your Items anew. If you're still wearing items you had 
invested the previous day, you can typically keep them invested 
on the new day, but they still count against your limit. 


EQUIPMENT 


CRAFTING 


DISRUPTING ACTIVATIONS 

Some abilities and effects can disrupt the process of 
Activating an Item. If something disrupts your item 
activation, you fail to Activate the Item and lose the 
actions you committed. If the item can be activated only 
a certain number of times per day, the failed activation 
still counts against that limit. If an item requires you to 
spend actions to Sustain an Activation and one of those 
actions is disrupted, the item's effect ends. 


ACTIVATING ITEMS 


Some items produce their effects only when used properly 
in the moment. Others always offer the same benefits as 
their mundane counterparts when worn, but have magical 
abilities you can gain by further spending actions. Either 
case requires you to use the Activate an Item activity. 
Activating an Item works much like Casting a Spell, in that 
the activity takes a variable number of actions and can have 
different components depending on how you Activate the 
Item. This information appears in the item’s Activate entry. 
If an item is used up when activated, as is the case for 
consumable items, its Activate entry appears toward the 
top of the stat block. For permanent items with activated 
abilities, the Activate entry is a paragraph in the description. 
Activations are not necessarily magical—for instance, 
drinking an alchemical elixir isn’t usually a magical effect. 


ACTIVATE AN ITEM 


Requirements You can Activate an Item with the invested 
trait only if it's invested by you. If the item requires you to 
Interact with it, you must be wielding it (if it’s a held item) 
or touching it with a free hand (if it’s another type of item). 

You call forth the effect of an item by properly activating 

it. This is a special activity that takes a variable number of 

actions, as listed in the item's stat block. 

Some items can be activated as a reaction or free action. In 
this case, you Activate the Item as a reaction or free action (as 
appropriate) instead of as an activity. Such cases are noted 
in the item's Activate entry in its stat block-for example, 
“Activate 2 command.” 

Long Activation Times Some items take minutes or hours 
to activate. The Activate an ltem activity for these items 
includes a mix of the listed activation components, but it's not 
necessary to break down which one you're providing at a given 
time. You can't use other actions or reactions while activating 
such an item, though at the GM's discretion, you might be able 
to speak a few sentences. As with other activities that take 
a long time, these activations have the exploration trait, and 
you can't activate them in an encounter. If combat breaks out 
while you're activating one, your activation is disrupted (see 
the Disrupting Activations sidebar). 

Activation Components Each activation entry lists any 
components involved in the activation after the action icons 
or text, such as “* command.” The activation components, 


described below, add traits (listed in parentheses) and 
requirements to the activation. If you can't provide the 
components, you fail to Activate the Item. 

e Command (auditory, concentrate) 

e Envision (concentrate) 

e Interact (manipulate) 

* Cast a Spell 


ACTIVATION COMPONENTS 


An item’s activate entry lists the components required to 
activate its abilities. Each component adds certain traits 
to the Activate an Item activity, and some components 
have special requirements. The components that appear 
in this book are listed below. 


COMMAND 

This component is a specific utterance you must make 
in a loud and strong voice. Activate an Item gains the 
auditory and concentrate traits. You must be able to speak 
to provide this component. 


Envision 
This component is a specific image or phenomenon you 
need to imagine. Activate an Item gains the concentrate trait. 


INTERACT 

This component works like the Interact basic action. 
Activate an Item gains the manipulate trait and requires 
you to use your hands, just like with any Interact action. 


Cast A SPELL 
If an item lists “Cast a Spell” after “Activate,” the 
activation requires you to use the Cast a Spell activity 
(described on page 302) to Activate the Item. This 
happens when the item replicates a spell. You must have 
a spellcasting class feature to Activate an Item with this 
activation component. The activation requires the same 
number of actions and the same components as the spell 
normally does, unless noted otherwise. Refer to the spell’s 
stat block to determine which actions you must spend to 
Activate the Item to cast the spell. 

In this case, Activate an Item gains all the traits from 
the relevant components of the Cast a Spell activity. 


LIMITED ACTIVATIONS 


Some items can be activated only a limited number of 
times per day, as described in the items. This limit is 
independent of any costs for activating the item. The 
limit resets during your daily preparations. The limit is 
inherent to the item, so if an ability that can be used only 
once per day is used, it doesn’t refresh if another creature 
later invests or tries to activate the item. 


SUSTAINING ACTIVATIONS 


Some items, once activated, have effects that can be 
sustained if you concentrate on them. This works much 


E CRAFTING & TREASURE 


SS or 


ITEM CATEGORIES 


Items are grouped into the following categories, shown 
here with the page number where those items appear 
and a brief description of the category. 


Alchemical Items (page 543) are powered by the 
reactions of alchemical reagents. Almost all alchemical 
items are consumable items that are used up when you 
activate them. This category includes bombs, elixirs 
(including mutagens), poisons, and alchemical tools. 
Ammunition (page 559), in Consumables, includes 
different types of magical arrows, crossbow bolts, and 
other types of ammunition. 

Apex Items (page 603) are a subcategory of worn 
items of a high level that increase an ability score. 
Armor (page 555) includes the rules for basic magical 
armor as well as special suits of armor. 

Companion Items (page 604) are a category of worn 
items meant for animal companions and mounts. 
Consumables (page 559) are used up when you 
activate them, and include ammunition, oils, potions, 
scrolls, and talismans, among others. Categories of 
items that are consumables but have specific rules, 
such as alchemical items, are presented separately. 
Held Items (page 572) include a wide variety of items 
you use with your hands. This doesn't include more 
narrow categories of held items, such as weapons. 
Materials (page 577) can be used to make items with 
unique properties and other advantages. 

Oils (page 561) are consumables applied to the surface 
of an object or person. 

Potions (page 562) are consumable magical liquids 
you drink to activate. 

Runes (page 580) modify armor and weapons when 
etched onto them. This section includes fundamental 
runes for weapons (weapon potency and striking) and 
armor (armor potency and resilient). 

Scrolls (page 564) are consumables that allow 
spellcasters to cast more spells. 

Shields (page 586) include more durable shields and 
ones with special magical powers. 

Snares (page 589) are single-use traps typically made 
by rangers. 

Staves (page 592) provide flexible spellcasting options. 
Structures (page 596) include buildings, tents, and 
other larger items. 

Talismans (page 565) are consumables that are affixed 
to items and then activated for a one-time combat or 
physical benefit. 

Wands (page 597) hold a spell of the crafter's choice, 
and can be used to repeatedly cast that spell. 
Weapons (page 599) include the rules for basic magical 
weapons, weapons made from precious materials, and 
specific magic weapons. 

Worn Items (page 603) consist of a vast collection of 
clothing and other items you wear on your body. . 


<-> ie 


- THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


TaS 


[pq tT — o Giai e ES ^ 
JJATHFIND CORE RULEBOOK ¢ 
ES —€—————— — me EE ede d 


ITEM RARITY 

Like many other aspects of the rules, items have rarities. 
Player characters might find uncommon magic items for 
sale, but only infrequently and often by private sellers 
or in clandestine markets. Their formulas are often 
guarded and not readily available. Unless the GM decides 
otherwise, a character cannot purchase rare items, and 
their formulas are lost to time. 

Rarities for uncommon and rare treasures are indicated 
by the first trait in the stat block. Unique items are indicated 
in the same way, though there are none in this book. 


like the Sustain a Spell action (found on page 304). If an 
item's description states that you can sustain the effect, that 
effect lasts until the end of your turn in the round after you 
Activated the Item. You can use a Sustain an Activation 
action on that turn to extend the duration. 


+> SUSTAIN AN ACTIVATION 
Requirements You have at least one magic item activation that 
you can sustain, and you are not fatigued. 
Choose one magic item activation with a sustained duration 
you have in effect. The duration of that activation continues 
until the end of your next turn. Some activations may have 
slightly different or expanded effects if you sustain them. 
Sustaining an Activation for more than 10 minutes (100 
rounds) ends the activation and makes you fatigued unless 
the item's description states a different maximum duration 
(such as "up to 1 minute" or “up to 1 hour"). 
If your Sustain an Activation action is disrupted, the item's 
effect immediately ends. 


DISMISSING ACTIVATIONS 


Some item effects can be dismissed, ending the duration 


early due to you or the target taking action. Dismissing 
an activation requires using the Dismiss action. 


+> DISMISS 

You end one spell effect or magic item effect. This must be an 
effect that you are allowed to dismiss, as defined by the spell 
or item. Dismissal might end the effect entirely, or might end 
it just for a certain target or targets, depending on the spell 
or item. 


READING ITEMS 


Hundreds of items lie ahead. Each item is presented in a 
stat block, much like spells or feats. The example below 
shows the structure of an item stat block and gives a 
brief description of each entry. Entries appear only when 
applicable, so not all items will have every entry described 
here. Detailed rules governing aspects of the stat block 
specific to items appear after the stat block. 


ITEM NAME 

[mus] 

Price This entry lists the item's Price. An item that has multiple 
types includes Price for each type in its entry. 

Ammunition Magic ammunition lists the types of ammunition 
available for that kind of item. 

Usage This entry describes whether the item is held, worn, or 
affixed to or etched onto another item; Bulk The item's Bulk 
is listed here (the rules for Bulk appear on page 271). Runes 
dont have a Bulk entry. 

Activate The number of actions needed to Activate the Item 
appear here, followed by the components in parentheses. You 
can find activation rules on page 532. This entry appears here 
for consumables and lower in the stat block for permanent 
items that can be activated. This section might also have 
Frequency, Trigger, or Requirements entries as necessary. 

Onset This entry appears if the item's effect is delayed, which 
most often occurs with alchemical poisons. The onset is 
the amount of time that elapses between when a character 
Activates an Item and any effect occurs. 

The section after the line describes the item and its constant 

abilities. If the item can be activated and doesn't have an 

Activate entry above, that entry appears here in a paragraph 

beginning with “Activate.” 

Type If multiple types of the item exist, entries here indicate 
the name of each type, its level, its Price, and any other 
relevant details or alterations from the above description. 

Craft Requirements An item that has special requirements to 

be Crafted details those requirements here. 


LEVEL 


An item's level indicates what level of adventurer the 


ITEM [LEVEL] 


item is best suited for, but there's no limit to the items 
a character can use. A 3rd-level character who finds an 
item of 4th level or higher while adventuring can use 
it normally, and they can purchase the item if they can 
find it for sale and can afford it. When making items, a 
character can Craft only items whose level is equal to or 
lower than their own. 


Muctipte Types 

If multiple types of an item exist, the title line gives the 
minimum level followed by a plus symbol (“+”). The 
description includes information on the base version of the 
item, and the Type entries at the bottom of the stat block 
lists the specifics for each version, including the level, Price, 
and any modified or added abilities of the different types. 
For some items, the types listed are upgrades to the base 
item. For other items, such as aeon stones and wondrous 
figurines, each type is distinct from the others. 


PRICE 


If an item is available for purchase, a character can 
typically buy it for the listed Price, and the character uses 
this Price when they use the Craft activity to make the 
item. If a character wants to sell an item, they can sell it 


for half its Price (or full Price, if the item was made on 
commission), assuming they’re able to find a buyer. The 
GM determines whether a buyer is available. 


USAGE 


An item’s stat block includes a Usage entry that indicates 
whether a character must be holding or wearing the item 
in order to use it, or whether she instead must have it 
etched or affixed onto another item. 


Hero on Worn 

If a character must wield the item to use it, this entry in 
the item’s stat block lists the word “held” along with the 
number of hands the character must use when wielding 
the item, such as “held in 1 hand.” The rules for carrying 
and using items are provided on page 271. 

An item that needs to be worn to function lists “worn” 
as its usage. This is followed by another word if the 
character is limited to only one of that type of item. For 
instance, a character can wear any number of rings, so the 
entry for a ring would list only “worn.” However, if the 
Usage entry were “worn cloak,” then a character couldn’t 
wear another cloak on top of that one. It’s assumed that 
items are meant to be worn by humanoids; any item 
that can or must be worn by a different type of creature 
either states this in its description or has the companion 
trait. Most magic items a character must wear have the 
invested trait, as described on page 531. 


ArFixeo or ETCHED 

Some items enhance other items. Talismans function 
only if affixed to other items. They have a Usage 
entry indicating the type or types of items to which a 


» 


character can attach them, such as *affixed to armor. 
Rules for affixing a talisman are on page 565. 

Runes must be etched onto permanent items, such as 
armor, weapons, or runestones (found on page 571) to 
grant their benefit. Adding or transferring a rune takes 
downtime to accomplish. The Usage entry indicates the 
type or types of items a rune can be etched into, such 
as *etched onto a weapon." More information about 


etching runes is on page 580. 


CRAFT REQUIREMENTS 


An item might require the crafter to provide specific raw 
materials, supply spells, have a certain alignment, or meet 
other special requirements to Craft it. These appear in the 
Craft Requirements entry of the stat block. Every item also 
has default requirements, as listed in the Craft activity on 
page 244. In addition, creating alchemical items requires 
the Alchemical Crafting feat (page 258), creating magic 
items requires the Magical Crafting feat (page 263), and 
crafting snares requires the Snare Crafting feat (page 
266). Finally, crafting higher-level items requires greater 
proficiency in Crafting. Unless stated otherwise, creating 
items of 9th level and higher requires you to have the 


NOTABLE ITEM TRAITS 
The following traits apply to items. Some specific 
categories of item have special traits—such as elixir or 
scroll-described in their sections. 

Alchemical: Alchemical items are powered by the 
reactions of alchemical reagents. Alchemical items aren't 
magical, and they don't radiate a magical aura. Characters 
can Craft these items only if they have the Alchemical 
Crafting feat (page 258). 

Consumable: An item with this trait can be used only 
once. Unless stated otherwise, it's destroyed after activation, 
though, part of it might be recoverable for other purposes. 
For instance, while a potion is consumable, the vial it comes 
in is not destroyed when you drink it. Consumable items 
include alchemical items (page 543) as well as ammunition, 
oils, potions, scrolls, snares, talismans, and other magical 
consumables (which begin on page 559). 

When a character creates consumable items, she 
can make them in batches of four, as described in 
Consumables and Ammunition (page 245). 

Focused: An item with this trait can give you an 
additional Focus Point. This focus point is separate from 
your focus pool and doesn't count toward the cap on your 
focus pool. You can gain this benefit only if you have a 
focus pool, and there might be restrictions on how the 
point can be used. You can't gain more than 1 Focus 
Point per day from focused items, no matter how many 
focused items you have. 

Invested: A character can wear only 10 magical items 
that have the invested trait. None of the magical effects 
of the item apply if the character hasn't invested it, 
though the character still gains any normal benefits from 
wearing the physical item (like a hat keeping rain off a 
character's head). 

Magical: Items with this trait are imbued with magical 
energies. Each one radiates a magic aura infused with 
its dominant school of magic (abjuration, conjuration, 
divination, enchantment, evocation, illusion, necromancy, 
or transmutation; these are described on pages 297-298). 
A character can craft these items only if she has the 
Magical Crafting feat (page 263). 

Some items are closely tied to a particular tradition of 
magic. In these cases, the item has the arcane, divine, 
occult, or primal trait instead of the magical trait. Any of 
these traits indicates that the item is magical. 


master proficiency rank in Crafting, and items of 16th level 
and higher require legendary Crafting. 

The GM might allow you to Craft a permanent item from 
a lower-level version of the same item as an upgrade. For 
example, you might upgrade a bag of bolding from a type 
I to a type II bag, but you couldn't upgrade a clear spindle 
aeon stone into an orange prism aeon stone. The cost for 
this upgrade is the full difference in Price between the items, 
and the Crafting check uses a DC for the item's new level. 


LOST OMENS 


Cem THE 


AA 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


t) CORE RULEBOOK 42 
= " X c de! 


TREASURE TABLE 

Table 11-1 lists the items and runes appearing in this 
chapter. The table includes all the options of a given 
item level, organized by category and name. Each level 
has a section for consumables, followed by a section for 
permanent items. A superscript “U” indicates the item 
is uncommon, and a superscript “R” indicates it’s rare. 


TABLE 11-1: TREASURE BY LEVEL 


1st-Level Consumables Category Price Page 
Shining ammunition Ammunition 3 gp 560 
Acid flask, lesser Bomb 3 gp 544 
Alchemist's fire, lesser Bomb 3 gp 545 
Bottled lightning, lesser Bomb 3 gp 545 
Frost vial, lesser Bomb 3 gp 545 
Tanglefoot bag, lesser Bomb 3 gp 545 
Thunderstone, lesser Bomb 3 gp 545 


Feather token, ladder Consumable 3 gp 570 


Holy water Consumable 3 gp 57 
Runestone Consumable 3 gp 571 
Unholy water Consumable 3 gp 571 
Antidote, lesser Elixir 3 gp 546 
Antiplague, lesser Elixir 3 gp 546 
Bestial mutagen, lesser Elixir 4 gp 546 
Cheetahs elixir, lesser Elixir 3 gp 547 
Cognitive mutagen, lesser Elixir 4 gp 547 
Eagle-eye elixir, lesser Elixir 4 gp 548 
Elixir of life, minor Elixir 3 gp 548 
Juggernaut mutagen, lesser Elixir 4 gp 548 
Leaper’s elixir, lesser Elixir 3 gp 549 
Quicksilver mutagen, lesser Elixir 4 gp 549 
Serene mutagen, lesser Elixir 4 gp 549 
Silvertongue mutagen, lesser Elixir 4 gp 550 
Nectar of purification Oil 3 gp 561 
Arsenic Poison 3 gp 550 
Giant centipede venom Poison 4 gp 551 
Healing potion, minor Potion 4 gp 563 
Scroll of 1st-level spell Scroll 4 gp 565 
Alarm snare Snare 3 gp 589 
Caltrop snare Snare 3 gp 590 
Hampering snare Snare 3 gp 590 
Marking snare Snare 3 gp 590 
Signaling snare Snare 3 gp 591 
Spike snare Snare 3 gp 591 
Owlbear claw Talisman 3 gp 569 
Potency crystal Talisman 4 gp 569 
Wolf fang Talisman 4 gp 5/0 
Smokestick, lesser Tool 3 gp 554 
Snake oil Tool 2 gp 554 
Sunrod Tool 3 gp 554 
Tindertwig Tool 2sp 554 
i1st-Level Permanent Items Category Price Page 
Half plate Armor 18 gp 276 
Splint mail Armor 13 gp 276 
Everburning torch Held 15 gp 573 
Aeon stone, dull gray" Worn 9 gp 604 


2nd-Level Consumables 
Feather token, holly bush 
Bravos brew, lesser 

Cat's eye elixir 
Comprehension elixir, lesser 
Darkvision elixir, lesser 
Infiltrator's elixir 

Oil of potency 

Oil of weightlessness 
Belladonna 

Black adder venom 
Lethargy poison" 

Bronze bull pendant 

Crying angel pendant 
Effervescent ampoule 
Hunter's bane 

Jade cat 

Mesmerizing opal 

Monkey pin 

Onyx panther 

Savior spike 

Silversheen 

2nd-Level Permanent Items 
Full plate 

Wondrous figurine, onyx dog 
+1 weapon potency 

Cold iron buckler, low-grade 
Cold iron shield, low-grade 
Silver buckler, low-grade 
Silver shield, low-grade 

+1 weapon 

Cold iron weapon, low-grade 
Silver weapon, low-grade 

+1 handwraps of mighty blows 
Brooch of shielding” 

Hand of the mage 

Hat of disguise 

Wayfinder” 

3rd-Level Consumables 
Beacon shot 

Sleep arrow 

Spellstrike ammunition 1st 
Vine arrow 

Acid flask, moderate 
Alchemist's fire, moderate 
Bottled lightning, moderate 
Frost vial, moderate 
Tanglefoot bag, moderate 
Thunderstone, moderate 
Feather token, bird 

Feather token, chest 

Bestial mutagen, moderate 
Cognitive mutagen, moderate 
Juggernaut mutagen, moderate 
Quicksilver mutagen, moderate 
Serene mutagen, moderate 


Silvertongue mutagen, moderate 


Category 
Consumable 
Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Oil 

Oil 

Poison 
Poison 
Poison 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Tool 
Category 
Armor 

Held 

Rune 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Worn 

Worn 

Worn 

Worn 

Worn 
Category 
Ammunition 
Ammunition 
Ammunition 
Ammunition 
Bomb 

Bomb 

Bomb 

Bomb 

Bomb 

Bomb 
Consumable 
Consumable 
Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 


Price 
6 gp 
7 gp 
7gp 
7gp 
6 gp 
6 gp 
7 gp 
6 gp 
5 gp 
6 gp 
7gp 
7gp 
7gp 
7gp 
6 gp 
6 gp 
7 gp 
6 gp 
7 8p 
7 gp 
6 gp 
Price 
30 gp 
34 gp 
35 gp 
30 gp 
34 gp 
30 gp 
34 gp 
35 gp 


40* gp 
40* gp 


35 gp 
30 gp 
30 gp 
30 gp 
28 gp 
Price 
10 gp 
Ti gp 
12 gp 
10 gp 
10 gp 
10 gp 
10 gp 
10 gp 
10 gp 
10 gp 
8 gp 
10 gp 
12 gp 
12 gp 
12 gp 
12 gp 
12 gp 
12 gp 


Page 


570 
547 
547 
547 
547 
548 
562 
562 
551 
551 
552 
566 
566 
566 
567 
568 
568 
568 
569 
569 
554 


Page 


276 
576 
581 
586 
586 
587 
587 
599 
599 
599 
611 
607 
ett 
ett 
617 


Page 


559 
560 


RI EDS n 


goes LED RET 


E CRAFTING & TREASURE 


ict mente 7 4 


577 9077 Wes 


Oil of mending Oil 9 gp 561 +1 striking weapon Weapon 100 gp 

Cytillesh oil Poison 10 gp 551 Alchemist goggles Worn 100 gp 605 

Graveroot Poison 10 gp 552 +1 striking handwraps of Worn 100 gp 611 

Healing potion, lesser Potion 12gp 563 mighty blows 

Potion of water breathing Potion Ti gp 564 Demon mask Worn 85gp X 609 

Scroll of 2nd-level spell Scroll 12gp 565 Healer's gloves Worn 80gp 612 

Feather step stone Talisman 8 gp 567 Lifting belt Worn 80 gp 613 

3rd-Level Permanent Items Category Price Page 5th-Level Consumables Category Price — Page 

Maestro's instrument, lesser Held 60 gp 574 Spellstrike ammunition 2nd Ammunition — 30 gp 560 

Thurible of revelation, lesser Held 55gp 575 Cheetahs elixir, moderate Elixir 25gp 547 

Returning Rune 55 gp 584 Eagle-eye elixir, moderate Elixir 27 gp 548 

Staff of fire Staff 60 gp 594 Elixir of life, lesser Elixir 30 gp 548 i 7 
Wand of 1st-level spell Wand 60 gp 597 Sea touch elixir, lesser Elixir 22 gp 549 pex ` 
Fighter's fork Weapon 50gp 600 Salve of slipperiness Oil 25gp 562 EQUIPMENT 
Retribution axe Weapon 60gp 602 Hunting spider venom Poison 25gp 552 ja 

Bracelet of dashing Worn 58gp 607 Potion of leaping Potion 21gp ^ 563 - SPELLS 
Bracers of missile deflection Worn 52gp 607 Scroll of 3rd-level spell Scroll 30gp 565 | 

Channel protection amulet" Worn 56gp 608 Emerald grasshopper Talisman 30gp 566 |. THE AGE OF 
Coyote cloak Worn 60 gp 609 Shark tooth charm iron 23 gp 569 LOST OMENS 
Crafter's eyepiece Worn 60gp 609 Sneaky key Talisman 22gp 569 

Dancing scarf Worn 60 gp 609 Tiger menuki Talisman 30 gp 569 PLAYING THE 
Doubling rings Worn 50 gp 609 5th-Level Permanent Items Category Price Page u tea 

Hat of the magi Worn 50 gp ett +1 armor Armor 160gp 556 Eg GAME 
Pendant of the occult Worn 60 gp 613 Cold iron armor, low-grade Armor 140+ gp 555 ¥ 

Persona mask Worn 50 gp 613 Silver armor, low-grade Armor 140+ gp 556 

Tracker’s goggles Worn 60 gp 616 Holy prayer beads" Held 160gp 573 

Ventriloquist's ring Worn 60 gp 617 Skeleton key Held 125gp 5/5 A Y 
4th-Level Consumables Category Price Page +1 armor potency Rune le0gp 581 CRAFTING 
Climbing bolt Ammunition 15gp 559 Sones Rune 140gp 583 8 TREASURE 
Viper arrow Ammunition 17 gp 561 Disrupting Rune 150gp 584 

Feather token, fan Consumable 15 gp 570 Shadow Rune 55gp 583 

Bomber's eye elixir, lesser Elixir 14 gp 547 Slick Rune 45gp X 583 

Darkvision elixir, moderate Elixir 11 gp 547 Pocket stage Structure 138gp 596 

Mistform elixir, lesser Elixir 18gp 549 Wand of 2nc-level spell Wand l60gp — 597 

Salamander elixir, lesser Elixir 15gp 549 Wand of continuation 1st Wand 160gp 598 

Stone fist elixir Elixir 13 gp 550 Wand of manifold missiles 1st Wand 160 gp 598 

Winter wolf elixir, lesser Elixir 15gp 550 Caterwaul sling Weapon 155gp 600 

Barkskin potion Potion sep 562 Dagger of venom Weapon 150gp 600 

Invisibility potion" Potion 20gp 563 Boots of elvenkind Worn 145gp 606 

Shrinking potion Potion 15ep 564 Diplomat's badge Worn 125gp 609 

Biting snare Snare 15 gp 589 Goggles of night Worn 150gp 610 

Hobbling snare” Snare 15 gp 590 Necklace of fireballs type | Worn 44 gp 613 

Stalker bane snare" Snare 15 gp 591 6th-Level Consumables Category Price Page 

Trip snare Snare 15 gp 591 Dust of appearance Consumable 50 gp 5/0 

Warning snare Snare 15 gp 591 Feather token, tree Consumable 38 gp 5/0 

Bloodseeker beak Talisman 20gp 565 Antidote, moderate Elixir 35gp 546 

Dragon turtle scale Talisman i3gp 566 Antiplague, moderate Elixir 35gp 546 

Fear gem Talisman 20 gp 566 Mistform elixir, moderate Elixir 56 gp 549 

Ath-Level Permanent Items Category Price Page Oil of weightlessness, greater Oil 36gp 562 

Bag of holding type I Held 75 gp 572 Salve of antiparalysis Oil 40 gp 562 

Ghost touch Rune 75 gp 584 Giant scorpion venom Poison 40 gp 551 

Striking Rune 65 gp 581 Healing potion, moderate Potion 50 gp 563 

Sturdy shield, minor Shield 100 gp 588 Potion of resistance, lesser Potion 45 gp 563 

Animal staff Staff 90 gp 592 Potion of swimming Potion 50 gp 563 

Mentalist's staff Staff 90gp 592 Truth potion" Potion 46gp X 564 

Staff of healing Staff 90gp 594 Iron cube Talisman 50gp — 567 

Wand of widening 1st Wand 100 gp 598 


=——— V 


6th-Level Permanent Items 
Ghoul hide" 

Chime of opening” 

Horn of fog 

Primeval mistletoe 

Traveler's any-tool 

Shifting 

Lion's shield 

Spellguard shield 

Staff of abjuration 

Staff of conjuration 

Staff of divination 

Staff of enchantment 

Staff of evocation 

Staff of illusion 

Staff of necromancy 

Staff of transmutation 
Verdant staff 

Wand of widening 2nd 
Bloodletting kukri" 

Twining staff 

Aeon stone, gold nodule” 
Choker of elocution 
Clandestine cloak” 

Ring of energy resistance 

Ring of the ram 

7th-Level Consumables 
Spellstrike ammunition 3rd 
Feather token, anchor 
Comprehension elixir, greater 
Leapers elixir, greater 

Giant wasp venom 

Malyass root paste 

Dragon's breath potion, young 
Serum of sex shift 

Scroll of 4th-level spell 

Grim trophy 

Murderer's knot 

Swift block cabochon” 
Smokestick, greater 
7th-Level Permanent Items 
Moonlit chain 

Horseshoes of speed 

Bag of holding type Il 

Bottled air 

Decanter of endless water 
Wondrous figurine, jade serpent 
Wounding 

Cold iron buckler, standard-grade 
Cold iron shield, standard-grade 
Silver buckler, standard-grade 
Silver shield, standard-grade 
Spined shield 

Sturdy shield, lesser 

Wand of 3rd-level spell 

Wand of continuation 2nd 
Aeon stone, clear spindle" 


' CORE RULE 
vae E o cell 


Category 
Armor 
Held 

Held 

Held 

Held 
Rune 
Shield 
Shield 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Wand 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Category 
Ammunition 
Consumable 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Poison 
Poison 
Potion 
Potion 
Scroll 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Tool 
Category 
Armor 
Companion 
Held 

Held 

Held 

Held 
Rune 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Wand 
Wand 
Worn 


BOOK 4 


Price 
220 gp 
235 gp 
230 gp 
230 gp 
200 gp 
225 gp 
245 gp 
250 gp 
230 gp 
230 gp 
230 gp 
230 gp 
230 gp 
230 gp 
230 gp 
230 gp 
225 gp 
250 gp 
240 gp 
250 gp 
230 gp 
200 gp 
230 gp 
245 gp 
220 gp 

Price 
70 gp 

55 gp 

54 gp 
55 gp 
55 gp 
55 gp 
70 gp 
60 gp 
70 gp 

55 gp 
66 gp 
70 gp 
53 gp 

Price 
360 gp 
340 gp 
300 gp 
320 gp 
320 gp 
340 gp 
340 gp 
300 gp 
340 gp 
300 gp 
340 gp 
360 gp 
360 gp 
360 gp 
360 gp 
325 gp 


Page 


558 
572 
573 
5/4 
5/6 
585 
588 
588 
593 
593 
593 
593 
593 
594 
594 
595 
595 
598 
600 
602 
604 
608 
608 
614 
615 


Page 


560 
570 
547 
549 
552 
552 
562 
564 
565 
567 
568 
569 
554 


Page 


558 
604 
572 
572 
573 
576 
585 
586 
586 
587 
587 
588 
588 
597 
598 
604 


Aeon stone, tourmaline sphere" 
Boots of bounding 

Cloak of elvenkind 

Gloves of storing’ 

Hat of disguise, greater 
Necklace of fireballs type II 
Ring of sustenance” 

Ring of wizardry type I" 
Slippers of spider climbing 
8th-Level Consumables 
Candle of truth" 

Feather token, swan boat 
Darkvision elixir, greater 
Nettleweed residue 
Wyvern poison 

Potion of flying 

Potion of quickness 
Shrinking potion, greater 
Bomb snare 

Grasping snare” 

Striking snare 

Gallows tooth 

Jade bauble 

8th-Level Permanent Items 
+1 resilient armor 

Collar of inconspicuousness 
Rod of wonder® 

Corrosive 

Energy-resistant 

Flaming 

Frost 

Invisibility 

Resilient 

Shock 

Slick, greater 

Thundering 

Adamantine buckler, 
standard-grade" 
Adamantine shield, 
standard-grade" 

Darkwood buckler, 
standard-grade" 

Darkwood shield, 
standard-grade" 

Darkwood tower shield, 
standard-grade" 
Dragonhide buckler, 
standard-grade" 
Dragonhide shield, 
standard-grade" 

Mithral buckler, standard-grade" 
Mithral shield, standard-grade" 
Animal staff, greater 
Mentalist’s staff, greater 
Staff of fire, greater 

Staff of healing, greater 
Staff of illumination 

Wand of smoldering fireballs 3rd 


Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Category 
Consumable 
Consumable 
Elixir 
Poison 
Poison 
Potion 
Potion 
Potion 
Snare 
Snare 
Snare 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Category 
Armor 
Companion 
Held 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Shield 


Shield 


Shield 


Shield 
Shield 


Shield 
Shield 


Shield 
Shield 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Wand 


350 gp 
340 gp 
360 gp 
340 gp 
340 gp 
115 gp 
325 gp 
360 gp 
325 gp 
Price 
75 gp 
76 gp 
90 gp 
75 gp 
80 gp 
100 gp 
90 gp 
90 gp 
75 gp 
75 gp 
75 gp 
100 gp 
100 gp 
Price 
500 gp 
475 gp 
465 gp 
500 gp 
420 gp 
500 gp 
500 gp 
500 gp 
340 gp 
500 gp 
450 gp 
500 gp 
400 gp 


440 gp 


400 gp 


440 gp 
560 gp 


400 gp 
440 gp 


400 gp 
440 gp 
460 gp 
450 gp 
450 gp 
470 gp 
425 gp 
500 gp 


604 
606 
608 
610 
611 

613 
615 
615 
616 


Page 


570 
570 
547 
553 
554 
563 
563 
564 
589 
590 
591 
567 
568 


Page 


556 
604 
575 
583 
582 
584 
584 
583 
581 
585 
583 
585 
586 


586 


586 


586 
586 


586 


586 


586 
586 
592 
592 
594 
594 
594 
598 


Wand of widening 3rd 
Bracers of armor type | 
9th-Level Consumables 
Explosive ammunition 
Spellstrike ammunition 4th 
Storm arrow 

Dust of disappearance” 
Feather token, whip 
Javelin of lightning 
Cheetahs elixir, greater 
Elixir of life, moderate 
Aligned oil 

Lich dust 

Spider root 

Scroll of 5th-level spell 
9th-Level Permanent Items 
Rhino hide 

Collar of empathy 

Horn of blasting 
Immovable rod 

Triton's conch 

Grievous 

Shadow, greater 
Dragonslayer’s shield" 
Force shield" 

Wand of 4th-level spell 
Wand of continuation 3rd 
Wand of manifold missiles 3rd 
Gloom blade 

Armbands of athleticism 
Belt of the five kings" 
Bracers of missile deflection, 
greater 

Coyote cloak, greater 
Dancing scarf, greater 

Eye of the eagle 

Hat of the magi, greater 
Healer's gloves, greater 
Knapsack of halflingkind" 
Messenger's ring 

Necklace of fireballs type III 
Pendant of the occult, greater 
Persona mask, greater 
Phylactery of faithfulness 
Tracker's goggles, greater 
Ventriloquist's ring, greater 
10th-Level Consumables 
Elemental gem 

Antidote, greater 
Antiplague, greater 
Bravo's brew, moderate 
Eagle-eye elixir, greater 
Mistform elixir, greater 
Shadow essence 
Wolfsbane 

Potion of resistance, moderate 
Iron medallion 


Wand 

Worn 
Category 
Ammunition 
Ammunition 
Ammunition 
Consumable 
Consumable 
Consumable 
Elixir 

Elixir 

Oil 

Poison 
Poison 
Scroll 
Category 
Armor 
Companion 
Held 

Held 

Held 

Rune 

Rune 
Shield 
Shield 
Wand 

Wand 

Wand 
Weapon 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 


Worn 
Worn 
Category 
Consumable 
Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Poison 
Poison 
Potion 
Talisman 


500 gp 
450 gp 
Price 
130 gp 
150 gp 
130 gp 
135 gp 
130 gp 
110 gp 
110 gp 
150 gp 
140 gp 
110 gp 
110 gp 
150 gp 
Price 
700 gp 
600 gp 
700 gp 
600 gp 
640 gp 
700 gp 
650 gp 
670 gp 
650 gp 
700 gp 
700 gp 
700 gp 
700 gp 
645 gp 
650 gp 
650 gp 


650 gp 
650 gp 
700 gp 
650 gp 
700 gp 
675 gp 
700 gp 
300 gp 
650 gp 
650 gp 
680 gp 
660 gp 
670 gp 
Price 
200 gp 
160 gp 
160 gp 
150 gp 
200 gp 
180 gp 
160 gp 
155 gp 
180 gp 
175 gp 


598 
607 


Page 


559 
560 
560 
570 
570 
571 
547 
548 
561 
552 
553 
565 


Page 


558 
604 
573 
5/4 
5/6 
584 
583 
587 
587 
597 
598 
598 
601 
605 
606 
607 


609 
609 
610 
611 
612 
612 
613 
613 
613 
613 
614 
616 
617 


Page 


570 
546 
546 
547 
548 
549 
553 
559 
563 
568 


| gpa Nats 77 fut 


E CRAFTING & TREASURE 
ewe MÀ a ge 


Mummified bat 

Vanishing coin 

10th-Level Permanent Items 
Breastplate of command 
Electric eelskin 

Barding of the zephyr 
Maestro's instrument, moderate 
Thurible of revelation, moderate 
Wondrous figurine, golden lions 
*2 weapon potency 

Invisibility, greater 

Forge warden" 

Sturdy shield, moderate 
Staff of abjuration, greater 
Staff of conjuration, greater 
Staff of divination, greater 
Staff of enchantment, greater 
Staff of evocation, greater 

Staff of illusion, greater 

Staff of necromancy, greater 
Staff of transmutation, greater 
Explorer's yurt 

Wand of widening 4th 

*2 striking weapon 


Cold iron weapon, standard-grade 


Silver weapon, standard-grade 


*2 striking handwraps of 
mighty blows 


Cape of the mountebank" 
Choker of elocution, greater 
Clandestine cloak, greater" 
Cloak of the bat 

Daredevil boots 

Demon mask, greater 
Druid's vestments 

Ring of counterspells" 


Ring of energy resistance, 
greater 


Ring of lies" 

Ring of wizardry type II" 
Winged boots 

Tith-Level Consumables 
Spellstrike ammunition 5th 
Acid flask, greater 
Alchemist's fire, greater 
Bottled lightning, greater 
Frost vial, greater 

Tanglefoot bag, greater 
Thunderstone, greater 
Bestial mutagen, greater 
Cognitive mutagen, greater 
Juggernaut mutagen, greater 
Quicksilver mutagen, greater 
Serene mutagen, greater 
Silvertongue mutagen, greater 
Oil of keen edges" 

Oil of repulsion 


Talisman 
Talisman 


Category 
Armor 
Armor 
Companion 
Held 
Held 
Held 
Rune 
Rune 
Shield 
Shield 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Structure 
Wand 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Worn 


Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 


Worn 


Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Category 
Ammunition 
Bomb 
Bomb 
Bomb 
Bomb 
Bomb 
Bomb 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Elixir 

Oil 

Oil 


RIN TET 


175gp 568 

160gp 569 f 

Price Page AT 
1,000 gp 557 ANCESTRIES & 
950gp 557 BACKGROUNDS 
900 gp 604 n" 
900gp 574 

900gp 575 

900gp 576 

935gp 581 
1000gp 583 

975gp 587 
1000gp 588 ed 

900 gp 593 EQUIPMENT 
900 gp 593 ha 

900gp 593 | SPELLS 
900gp 593 L — 

900gp 593 | THE AGE OF 
900 gp 594 | LOST OMENS 
900 gp 594 

OORT pom THE 
880gp 596 ane 
um BE 

000 gp 599 : 
880«gp 599 
880«gp 599 
1000gp 6t O 

CRAFTING 

9808p 607 MEA 
850gp 608 | 

900 gp 608 

950 gp 608 

900 gp 609 

900 gp 609 
1,000 gp 610 

925gp 614 

975 gp 614 

850gp 614 
1,000 gp 615 

850gp 617 


Price 
300 gp 
250 gp 
250 gp 
250 gp 
250 gp 
250 gp 
250 gp 
300 gp 
300 gp 
300 gp 
300 gp 
300 gp 
300 gp 
250 gp 
175 gp 


Page 


560 
544 
545 
545 
545 
545 
545 
546 
547 
548 
549 
549 
550 
561 
562 


Blightburn resin Poison 225 gp 551 
Potion of swimming, greater Potion 250 gp 563 
Scroll of 6th-level spell Scroll 300 gp 565 
Tith-Level Permanent Items Category Price Page 
*2resilient armor Armor 1400gp 556 
Cold iron armor, standard-grade Armor 1,200+ gp 555 
Silver armor, standard-grade Armor 1,200+ gp 556 
Bag of holding type III Held 1200 gp 572 
Holy prayer beads, greater” Held 1400 gp 573 
Skeleton key, greater Held 1250 gp 575 
+2 armor potency Rune 1,060 gp 581 
Anarchic Rune 1400 gp 583 
Axiomatic Rune 1400 gp 583 
Holy Rune 1400 gp 584 
Unholy Rune 1400 gp 585 
Arrow-catching shield Shield 1350 gp 587 
Floating shield" Shield 1,250 gp 587 
Wand of 5th-level spell Wand 1,500 gp 597 
Wand of continuation 4th Wand 1400 gp 598 
Adamantine weapon, Weapon 1400+ gp 599 
standard-grade" 

Darkwood weapon, Weapon 1400*gp 599 
standard-grade" 

MEA Weapon ^ i400«gp 599 
standard-grade" à 

Oathbow Weapon 1300gp 602 
Alchemist goggles, greater Worn 1400gp 605 
Boots of elvenkind, greater Worn 1250gp 606 
Cassock of devotion Worn 1150gp 607 
Crafter's eyepiece, greater Worn 1200gp 609 
Doubling rings, greater Worn 1300gp 609 
Goggles of night, greater Worn 1250gp 610 
Gorget of the primal roar Worn 1250gp 611 
Necklace of fireballs type IV Worn 700 gp 613 
Ring of maniacal devices Worn 1175gp 614 
12th-Level Consumables Category Price Page 
Penetrating ammunition Ammunition 400 gp 560 
Salamander elixir, moderate Elixir 320 gp 549 
Sea touch elixir, moderate Elixir 300 gp 549 
Winter wolf elixir, moderate Elixir 320 gp 550 
Oil of animation” Oil 330 gp 561 
Salve of antiparalysis, greater Oil 325 gp 562 
Slumber wine Poison 325 gp 553 
Dragon's breath potion, adult Potion 400 gp 562 
Healing potion, greater Potion 400 gp 563 
Potion of tongues” Potion 320 gp 563 
Bleeding spines snare Snare 320 gp 589 
Scything blade snare Snare 320 gp 591 
Stunning snare Snare 320 gp 591 
Eye of apprehension Talisman 400 gp 566 
Fade band Talisman 320 gp 566 
Iron equalizer Talisman 400 gp 567 
12th-Level Permanent Items Category Price Page 
Adamantine armor, Armor 1600+ gp 555 
standard-grade" 

Darkwood armor, Armor 1600*gp 555 


standard-grade" 


Dragonhide armor, 
standard-grade" 

Mithral armor, standard-grade" 
Broom of flying 

Marvelous medicines 
Energy-resistant, greater 
Fortification 

Striking, greater 

Animal staff, major 
Mentalist's staff, major 

Staff of fire, major 

Staff of healing, major 
Verdant staff, greater 

Wand of smoldering fireballs 5th 
Wand of widening 5th 

*2 greater striking weapon 
*2 greater striking handwraps of 
mighty blows 

Aeon stone, pink rhomboid" 
Berserker's cloak 

Cloak of elvenkind, greater 
Ring of climbing 

Ring of swimming 

Ring of wizardry type III" 
13th-Level Consumables 
Explosive ammunition, greater 
Spellstrike ammunition 6th 
Elixir of life, greater 
Deathcap powder 

Purple worm venom 
Panacea" 

Scroll of 7th-level spell 
Mending lattice" 

13th-Level Permanent Items 
Celestial armor 

Demon armor 

Elven chain, standard-grade" 
Mail of luck 

Bag of holding type IV 
Wondrous figurine, 

marble elephant 

Dancing" 

Keen" 

Spell-storing" 

Sturdy shield, greater 

Wand of 6th-level spell 
Wand of continuation 5th 
Wand of manifold missiles 5th 
Dwarven thrower 

Flame tongue 

Aeon stone, pale 

lavender ellipsoid" 

Boots of speed 

Eye of fortune 

Knapsack of halflingkind, 
greater" 

Necklace of fireballs type V 
Ring of the ram, greater 


Armor 


Armor 
Held 
Held 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Staff 
Wand 
Wand 
Weapon 
Worn 


Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 


Category 
Ammunition 
Ammunition 


Elixir 
Poison 
Poison 
Potion 
Scroll 


Talisman 
Category 


Armor 
Armor 
Armor 
Armor 
Held 
Held 


Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Shield 
Wand 
Wand 
Wand 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Worn 


Worn 
Worn 
Worn 


Worn 
Worn 


1,600+ gp 


1,600+ gp 
1900 gp 
1,800 gp 
1650 gp 
2,000 gp 
1,065 gp 
1,900 gp 
1,800 gp 
1,800 gp 
1,800 gp 
1,750 gp 
2,000 gp 
2,000 gp 
2,000 gp 
2,000 gp 


1,900 gp 
2,000 gp 
1,750 gp 
1,750 gp 
1750 gp 
2,000 gp 
Price 
520 gp 
600 gp 
600 gp 
450 gp 
500 gp 
450 gp 
600 gp 
525 gp 
Price 
2,500 gp 
2,500 gp 
2,500 gp 
2,600 gp 
2,400 gp 
2,700 gp 


2,700 gp 
3,000 gp 
2,700 gp 
3,000 gp 
3,000 gp 
3,000 gp 
3,000 gp 
2,/50 gp 
2,800 gp 
2,200 gp 


3,000 gp 
2,/00 gp 
2,850 gp 


1,600 gp 
2,700 gp 


555 


556 
572 
5/4 
582 
582 
581 
592 
592 
594 
594 
595 
598 
598 
599 
ett 


604 
606 
608 
614 
615 
615 


Page 


559 
560 
548 
551 
553 
563 
565 
568 


Page 


557 
557 
555 
558 
572 
5/6 


583 
584 
585 
588 
597 
598 
598 
600 
600 
604 


606 
610 
612 


613 
615 


14th-Level Consumables 
Ghost ammunition 

Antidote, major 

Antiplague, major 

Bomber's eye elixir, greater 
Potion of resistance, greater 
Dazing Coil 

Iron cudgel 

Viper's fang 

14th-Level Permanent Items 
*2 greater resilient armor 
Horseshoes of speed, greater 
Crystal ball, clear quartz" 
Primeval mistletoe, greater 
Rod of negation 

Disrupting, greater" 
Resilient, greater 

Staff of abjuration, major 
Staff of conjuration, major 
Staff of divination, major 
Staff of enchantment, major 
Staff of evocation, major 
Staff of illusion, major 

Staff of necromancy, major 
Staff of transmutation, major 
Wand of widening 6th 

Holy avenger" 

Storm flash 

Boots of bounding, greater 
Bracers of armor type Il 

Ring of energy resistance, major 
Ring of wizardry type IV} 
15th-Level Consumables 
Disintegration bolt" 
Spellstrike ammunition 7th 
Stone bullet 

Bravo's brew, greater 

Elixir of life, major 

Sea touch elixir, greater 
Obfuscation oil 

Dragon bile 

Mindfog mist 

Potion of flying, greater 
Scroll of 8th-level spell 
15th-Level Permanent Items 
Plate armor of the deep” 
Crystal ball, selenite” 


Wondrous figurine, 
obsidian steed” 


Antimagic" 

Corrosive, greater 

Flaming, greater 

Frost, greater 

Shock, greater 

Thundering, greater 

Cold iron buckler, high-grade 
Cold iron shield, high-grade 


Category 
Ammunition 
Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 
Potion 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Category 
Armor 
Companion 
Held 

Held 

Held 

Rune 
Rune 

Staff 

Staff 

Staff 

Staff 

Staff 

Staff 

Staff 

Staff 
Wand 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Category 
Ammunition 
Ammunition 
Ammunition 
Elixir 

Elixir 

Elixir 

Oil 

Poison 
Poison 
Potion 
Scroll 
Category 
Armor 
Held 

Held 


Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Shield 
Shield 


Price 
900 gp 
675 gp 
675 gp 
700 gp 
850 gp 
900 gp 
900 gp 
850 gp 

Price 

4,500 gp 
4,250 gp 
3,800 gp 
3,900 gp 
4,300 gp 
4,300 gp 
3,440 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,500 gp 
4,500 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,250 gp 
4,000 gp 
4,400 gp 
4,500 gp 
Price 
1,300 gp 
1,300 gp 
1,300 gp 
700 gp 
1,300 gp 
920 gp 
1,200 gp 
925 gp 
1,000 gp 
1,000 gp 
1,300 gp 
Price 
6,500 gp 
7,000 gp 
6,000 gp 


6,500 gp 
6,500 gp 
6,500 gp 
6,500 gp 
6,500 gp 
6,500 gp 
5,000 gp 
5,500 gp 


Page 


559 
546 
546 
547 
563 
566 
567 
569 


Page 


556 
604 
572 
5/4 
5/4 
584 
581 
593 
593 
593 
593 
593 
594 
594 
595 
598 
601 
602 
606 
607 
614 
615 


Page 


559 
560 


Page 


558 
572 
5/6 


582 
583 
584 
584 
585 
585 
586 
586 


E CRAFTI 


Silver buckler, high-grade 
Silver shield, high-grade 

Wand of 7th-level spell 

Wand of continuation 6th 
Necklace of fireballs type VI 
Robe of the archmagi" 
16th-Level Consumables 
Eagle-eye elixir, major 
Salamander elixir, greater 
Winter wolf elixir, greater 
Brimstone fumes 

Nightmare vapor 

Truesight potion 

Hail of arrows snare 
Omnidirectional spear snare 
Flame navette 

Ghost dust 

16th-Level Permanent Items 
Dragonplate" 

Crystal ball, moonstone” 

+3 weapon potency 

Slick, major 

Speed® 

Adamantine buckler, high-grade” 
Adamantine shield, high-grade” 
Darkwood buckler, high-grade” 
Darkwood shield, high-grade” 
Darkwood tower shield, 
high-grade" 

Dragonhide buckler, high-grade” 
Dragonhide shield, high-grade" 
Floating shield, greater 

Mithral buckler, high-grade” 
Mithral shield, high-grade” 
Sturdy shield, major 

Staff of healing, true 

Staff of power® 

Instant fortress” 

Wand of slaying 7th 

Wand of smoldering fireballs 7th 
Wand of widening 7th 

+3 greater striking weapon 
Cold iron weapon, high-grade 
Frost brand 

Silver weapon, high-grade 

+3 greater striking handwraps of 
mighty blows 

Aeon stone, orange prism" 
17th-Level Consumables 
Spellstrike ammunition 8th 
Acid flask, major 

Alchemist's fire, major 

Bottled lightning, major 

Frost vial, major 

Tanglefoot bag, major 
Thunderstone, major 

Bestial mutagen, major 


Shield 
Shield 
Wand 
Wand 
Worn 
Worn 
Category 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Poison 
Poison 
Potion 
Snare 
Snare 
Talisman 
Talisman 
Category 
Armor 
Held 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 


Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Shield 
Staff 
Staff 
Structure 
Wand 
Wand 
Wand 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Worn 


Worn 
Category 
Ammunition 
Bomb 

Bomb 

Bomb 

Bomb 

Bomb 

Bomb 

Elixir 


Price 
2,000 gp 
1400 gp 
1400 gp 
1,500 gp 
1,400 gp 
1,500 gp 
1,500 gp 
1,500 gp 
1,800 gp 
1,800 gp 

Price 
10,000 gp 
7,500 gp 
8,935 gp 
9,000 gp 
10,000 gp 
8,000 gp 
8,800 gp 
8,000 gp 
8,800 gp 
11,200 gp 


8,000 gp 
8,800 gp 
9,000 gp 
8,000 gp 
8,800 gp 
10,000 gp 
9,200 gp 
10,000 gp 
9,300 gp 
10,000 gp 
10,000 gp 
10,000 gp 
10,000 gp 
9,000* gp 
10,000 gp 
9,000* gp 
10,000 gp 


9,750 gp 
Price 
3,000 gp 
2,500 gp 
2,500 gp 
2,500 gp 
2,500 gp 
2,500 gp 
2,500 gp 
3,000 gp 


NG & TREASURE 
ue Me Pa je € 


Page 


548 
549 
550 
551 
553 
564 
590 
591 
567 
567 


Page 


557 
572 
581 
583 
585 
586 
586 
586 
586 
586 


586 
586 
587 
586 
586 
588 
594 
595 
596 
598 
598 
598 
599 
599 
601 
599 
611 


604 


Page 


560 
544 
545 
545 
545 
545 
545 
546 


. THE AGE OF 
‘LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


zip 


t 


RA 


LA 


FTING 


Cognitive mutagen, major 
Juggernaut mutagen, major 
Quicksilver mutagen, major 
Serene mutagen, major 
Silvertongue mutagen, major 
Hemlock 

Dragon's breath potion, wyrm 
Scroll of 9th-level spell 
Dispelling sliver 

17th-Level Permanent Items 
Anklets of alacrity 

Belt of giant strength 

Belt of regeneration 

Circlet of persuasion 

Diadem of intellect 

Headband of inspired wisdom 
Impenetrable scale" 

Crystal ball, peridot” 

Ethereal” 

Shadow, major 

Vorpal® 

Orichalcum buckler, high-grade® 
Orichalcum shield, high-grade® 
Wand of 8th-level spell 

Wand of continuation 7th 
Wand of manifold missiles 7th 
Adamantine weapon, 
high-grade” 

Darkwood weapon, high-grade” 
Flame tongue, greater 

Luck blade® 

Mithral weapon, high-grade” 
Alchemist goggles, major 
Armbands of athleticism, greater 
Cloak of the bat, greater 
Daredevil boots, greater 

Dread blindfold 

Messenger's ring, greater 
Necklace of fireballs type VII 


Phylactery of faithfulness, 
greater 


Robe of eyes" 

Voyager's pack" 

18th-Level Consumables 
King's sleep 

Healing potion, major 

Potion of undetectability 
18th-Level Permanent Items 
+3 greater resilient armor 
Breastplate of command, greater 
Cold iron armor, high-grade 
Silver armor, high-grade 
Maestro's instrument, greater 
Marvelous medicines, greater 
Possibility tome 

Thurible of revelation, greater 
*3 armor potency 


ER) CORE RULE 


2 


Elixir 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Elixir 
Poison 
Potion 
Scroll 
Talisman 


Category 


Apex 
Apex 
Apex 
Apex 
Apex 
Apex 
Armor 
Held 
Rune 
Rune 
Rune 
Shield 
Shield 
Wand 
Wand 
Wand 
Weapon 


Weapon 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Weapon 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 
Worn 


Worn 
Worn 


Category 


Poison 
Potion 
Potion 


Category 


Armor 
Armor 
Armor 
Armor 
Held 
Held 
Held 
Held 
Rune 


BOOK 4 


3,000 gp 
3,000 gp 
3,000 gp 
3,000 gp 
3,000 gp 
2,250 gp 
3,000 gp 
3,000 gp 
2,400 gp 
Price 
15,000 gp 
15,000 gp 
15,000 gp 
15,000 gp 
15,000 gp 
15,000 gp 
12,800 gp 
12,500 gp 
13,500 gp 
14,000 gp 
15,000 gp 
12,000 gp 
13,200 gp 
15,000 gp 
15,000 gp 
15,000 gp 
13,500+ gp 


13,500+ gp 
13,800 gp 
15,000 gp 
13,500+ gp 
15,000 gp 
13,000 gp 
13,000 gp 
14,000 gp 
15,000 gp 
13,500 gp 
9,600 gp 
13,000 gp 


13,000 gp 
14,800 gp 
Price 
4,000 gp 
5,000 gp 
4,400 gp 
Price 
24,000 gp 
22,000 gp 
20,000+ gp 
20,000+ gp 
19,000 gp 
19,000 gp 
22,000 gp 
19,000 gp 
20,560 gp 


547 
548 
549 
549 
550 
552 
562 
565 
566 


Page 


603 
603 
603 
603 
603 
604 
558 
572 
582 
583 
585 
587 
587 
597 
598 
598 
599 


599 
600 
601 
599 
605 
605 
608 
609 
610 
613 
613 
614 


615 
617 


Page 


552 
563 
563 


Page 


556 
557 
555 
556 
5/4 
5/4 
5/4 
575 
581 


Fortification, greater Rune 24,000 gp 582 
Indestructible shield® Shield 24,000 gp 588 
Reflecting shield" Shield 18,000 gp 588 
Wand of slaying 8th Wand 24,000 gp 598 
Wand of widening 8th Wand 24,000 gp 598 
Orichalcum weapon, high-grade’ Weapon 22,500+ gp 599 
Storm flash, greater Weapon 21,000 gp 602 
Goggles of night, major Worn 20,000 gp 610 
Inexplicable apparatus Worn 19,000gp 612 
Ring of maniacal devices, greater Worn 21000gp 614 
19th-Level Consumables Category Price Page 
Spellstrike ammunition 9th Ammunition 8,000 gp 560 
Elixir of life, true Elixir 8,000gp 548 
Black lotus extract Poison 6,500gp 551 
Scroll of 10th-level spell" Scroll 8,000gp 565 
19th-Level Permanent Items Category Price Page 
Adamantine armor, high-grade’ Armor 32,000+ gp 555 
Darkwood armor, high-grade” Armor 32,000+ gp 555 
Dragonhide armor, high-grade’ Armor 32,000+ gp 555 
Mithral armor, high-grade” Armor 32,000+ gp 556 
Crystal ball, obsidian” Held 32,000 gp 572 
Striking, major Rune 31,065 gp 581 
Sturdy shield, supreme Shield 40,000 gp 588 
Wand of Sth-level spell Wand 40,000gp 597 
Wand of continuation 8th Wand 40,000gp 598 
*3 major striking weapon Weapon 40,000gp 599 
Luck blade, wishing® Weapon 30,000 gp 601 
Mattock of the titans” Weapon 36,000 gp 601 
+3 major striking handwraps of Worn 40,000 gp 611 
mighty blows 

Aeon stone, lavender and Worn 30,000 gp 604 
green ellipsoid” 

Berserker's cloak, greater Worn 40,000gp 606 
Robe of the archmagi, greater Worn 32,000gp 616 
Third eye Worn 40,000gp 616 
20th-Level Consumables Category Price Page 
Elixir of rejuvenation” Elixir - 548 
Antimagic oil® Oil 13,000 gp 561 
Tears of death Poison 12,000 gp 553 
Flying blade wheel snare Snare 10,000 gp 590 
Instant evisceration snare Snare 10,000 gp 590 
Philosopher's stone" Tool - 554 
20th-Level Permanent Items Category Price Page 
+3 major resilient armor Armor 70,000 gp 556 
Elven chain, high-grade” Armor 52,000+ gp 555 
Orichalcum armor, high-grade? Armor 55,000+ gp 556 
Resilient, major Rune 49,440 gp 581 
Staff of the magi" Staff 90,000 gp 595 
Wand of slaying 9th Wand 70,000 gp 598 
Wand of smoldering fireballs 9th Wand 70,000 gp 598 
Wand of widening 9th Wand 70,000 gp 598 
Skyhammer® Weapon 70,000 gp 602 
Bracers of armor type III Worn 60,000 gp 607 
Ring of spell turning® Worn 67000 gp 615 
Whisper of the first lie® Worn 60,000 gp 617 


ALCHEMICAL ITEMS Level Item Category Page 


Alchemical items are not magical. They instead use the Cheetahs elixir, lesser Elixir 547 
properties of volatile chemicals, exotic minerals, potent Cognitive mutagen, lesser Elixir 547 
plants, and other substances, collectively referred to as Eagle-eye elixir, lesser Elixir 548 
alchemical reagents. As such, alchemical items don’t Elixir of life, lesser Elixir 548 
radiate magical auras, and they can’t be dismissed Juggernaut mutagen, lesser Elixir 548 
or affected by dispel magic. Their effects last for a set Leaper’s elixir, lesser Elixir 549 
amount of time or until they are countered in some way, Quicksilver mutagen, lesser Elixir 549 
typically physically. Serene mutagen, lesser Elixir 549 
Sometimes the reactions of alchemical reagents create Silvertongue mutagen, lesser Elixir 550 
effects that seem magical, and at other times they straddle Arsenic Poison 550 
the line between purely reactive and the inexplicable. Giant centipede venom Poison 551 
Alchemists can infuse reagents with some of their own Smokestick, lesser Tool 554 
essence, allowing them to efficiently create short-lived Snake oil Tool 554 
alchemical items at no monetary cost. Even in these cases, Sunrod Tool 554 
alchemical items don’t radiate magic auras, instead using Tindertwig Tool 554 
the alchemist’s infused essence as one additional catalyst Bravo's brew, lesser Elixir 547 
for the item’s alchemical effects. Cat's eye elixir Elixir 547 - 
Rules for creating alchemical items are found in the Comprehension elixir, lesser Elixir — 547 LOST OMENS 
Craft activity on page 244, and you must have the Darkvision elixir, lesser Elixir 547 
Alchemical Crafting skill feat to use Crafting to create Infiltrator's elixir Elixir 548 PLAYING THE 
alchemical items. Critically failing a Crafting check to Belladonna Poison 551 GAME 
make alchemical items often causes a dangerous effect, Black adder venom Poison 551 tx 
such as an explosion for a bomb or accidental exposure Lethargy poison Poison 552 
for a poison, in addition to losing some of the materials. Silversheen Tool 554 
Some alchemical items have additional requirements Acid flask, moderate Bomb 544 c 
beyond those stated in the Craft activity; these items list Alchemist's fire, moderate Bomb 545 CRAFTING 
their requirements in a Craft Requirements entry. Bottled lightning, moderate Bomb 545 | § TREASURE 
All alchemical items have the alchemical trait. Most Frost vial, moderate Bomb 545 l 
also have the consumable trait, which means that the item Tanglefoot bag, moderate Bomb 545 
is used up once activated. The bomb, elixir, and poison Thunderstone, moderate Bomb 546 
traits indicate special categories of alchemical items, each Bestial mutagen, moderate Elixir 546 
of which is described on the following pages. Alchemical Cognitive mutagen, moderate Elixir 547 


items without any of these traits are called alchemical Juggernaut mutagen, moderate ^ Elixir 548 


tools, and are described further on page 554. Quicksilver mutagen, moderate Elixir 549 


^ =) & fey) 0» 46» O71 Fon) O71 fen) C1 ES) I EE IBS BI Go FG) Go Go) CO Co) CO EOS! CO EGO! CO (CO) CO TIS) MO I) INO MINOS MOINS) INO iS) S&S SS SS SS — SS SS — E — 


This section contains the following subcategories. Serene mutagen, moderate Elixir 549 
Special rules appear at the start of the relevant section. Silvertongue mutagen, moderate Elixir 550 
* Alchemical bombs appear on page 544. Cytillesh oil Poison 551 

* Alchemical elixirs are listed on page 546. Graveroot Poison 552 

* Alchemical poisons begin on page 550. Bomber's eye elixir, lesser Elixir — 547 

* Alchemical tools can be found on page 554. Darkvision elixir, moderate Elixir — 547 
Mistform elixir, lesser Elixir 549 

Salamander elixir, lesser Elixir 549 

TABLE 11-2: ALCHEMICAL ITEMS BY LEVEL Stone fist elixir Elixir 550 
Table 11-2 lists alchemical items arranged by level and Winter wolf elixir, lesser Elixir 550 
category, as a reference primarily for alchemist characters. Cheetah’s elixir, moderate Elixir 547 
Level Item Category Page Eagle-eye elixir, moderate Elixir 548 
1 Acid flask, lesser Bomb 544 Elixir of life, lesser Elixir 548 
1 Alchemist's fire, lesser Bomb 545 Sea touch elixir, lesser Elixir 549 
1 Bottled lightning, lesser Bomb 545 Hunting spider venom Poison 552 
1 Frost vial, lesser Bomb 545 Antidote, moderate Elixir 546 
1 Tanglefoot bag, lesser Bomb 545 Antiplague, moderate Elixir 546 
1 Thunderstone, lesser Bomb 546 Mistform elixir, moderate Elixir 549 
1 Antidote, lesser Elixir 546 Giant scorpion venom Poison 551 
1 Antiplague, lesser Elixir — 546 Comprehension elixir, greater Elixir 547 
1 Bestial mutagen, lesser Elixir 546 Leaper's elixir, greater Elixir 549 


ERT TIT «i 


Level Item Category Page Level Item Category Page 

7 Giant wasp venom Poison 552 17 Thunderstone, major Bomb 546 

7 Malyass root paste Poison 552 17 Bestial mutagen, major Elixir 546 

7 Smokestick, greater Tool 554 17 Cognitive mutagen, major Elixir 547 

8 Darkvision elixir, greater Elixir 547 17 Juggernaut mutagen, major Elixir 548 

8 Nettleweed residue Poison 553 17 Quicksilver mutagen, major Elixir 549 

8 Wyvern poison Poison 554 17 Serene mutagen, major Elixir 549 

9 Cheetahs elixir, greater Elixir 547 17 Silvertongue mutagen, major Elixir 550 

9 Elixir of life, moderate Elixir 548 17 Hemlock Poison 552 

9 Lich dust Poison 552 18 King's sleep Poison 552 

9 Spider root Poison 553 19 Elixir of life, true Elixir 548 
10 Antidote, greater Elixir 546 19 Black lotus extract Poison 551 

10 Antiplague, greater Elixir 546 20 Elixir of rejuvenation Elixir 548 
10 Bravo's brew, moderate Elixir 547 20 Tears of death Poison 553 
10 Eagle-eye elixir, greater Elixir 548 20 Philosopher's stone Tool 554 
10 Mistform elixir, greater Elixir 549 

10 Shadow essence Poison 553 ALCHEMICAL BOMBS 

10 Wolfsbane Poison 553 An alchemical bomb combines volatile alchemical 
1 Acid flask, greater Bomb 544 components that explode when the bomb hits a creature 
11 Alchemist's fire, greater Bomb 545 or object. Most alchemical bombs deal damage, though 
11 Bottled lightning, greater Bomb 545 some produce other effects. Bombs have the bomb trait. 
11 Frost vial, greater Bomb 545 Bombs are martial thrown weapons with a range 
11 Tanglefoot bag, greater Bomb 545 increment of 20 feet. When you throw a bomb, you make 
11 Thunderstone, greater Bomb 546 a weapon attack roll against the target's AC, as you would 
11 Bestial mutagen, greater Elixir 546 for any other weapon. It takes one hand to draw, prepare, 
1i Cognitive mutagen, greater Elixir 547 and throw a bomb. Due to the complexity involved in 
11 Juggernaut mutagen, greater Elixir 548 preparing bombs, Strikes to throw alchemical bombs gain 
11 Quicksilver mutagen, greater Elixir 549 the manipulate trait. The bomb is activated when thrown 
1i Serene mutagen, greater Elixir 549 as a Strike—you don't have to activate it separately. 

1i Silvertongue mutagen, greater Elixir 550 

1i Blightburn resin Poison 551 SPLASH TRAIT 

12 Salamander elixir, greater Elixir 549 Most bombs also have the splash trait. When you use a 
12 Sea touch elixir, moderate Elixir 549 thrown weapon with the splash trait, you don’t add your 
12 Winter wolf elixir, moderate Elixir 550 Strength modifier to the damage roll. If an attack with a 
12 Slumber wine Poison 553 splash weapon fails, succeeds, or critically succeeds, all 
13 Elixir of life, greater Elixir 548 creatures within 5 feet of the target (including the target) 
13 Deathcap powder Poison 551 take the listed splash damage. On a critical failure, the bomb 
13 Purple worm venom Poison 553 misses entirely, dealing no damage. Add splash damage 
14 Antidote, major Elixir 546 together with the initial damage against the target before 
14 Antiplague, major Elixir 546 applying the target’s resistance or weakness. You don’t 
14 Bomber' eye elixir, greater Elixir 547 multiply splash damage on a critical hit. 

15 Bravo's brew, greater Elixir 547 For example, if you throw a lesser acid flask and hit your 
15 Elixir of life, greater Elixir 548 target, that creature takes 1 acid damage, 1d6 persistent 
15 Sea touch elixir, greater Elixir 549 acid damage, and 1 acid splash damage. All other creatures 
15 Dragon bile Poison 551 within 5 feet of it take 1 acid splash damage. On a critical 
15 Mindfog mist Poison 553 hit, the target takes 2 acid damage and 2d6 persistent acid 
16 Eagle-eye elixir, major Elixir 548 damage, but the splash damage is still 1. If you miss, the 
16 Salamander elixir, greater Elixir 549 target and all creatures within 5 feet take only 1 splash 
16 Winter wolf elixir, greater Elixir 550 damage. If you critically fail, no one takes any damage. 

16 Brimstone fumes Poison 551 

16 Nightmare vapor Poison 553 ACID FLASK ITEM 1+ 
17 Acid flask, major Bomb 544 J aco | aucremicat | Bome | consumasue | sPLasH | 

17 Alchemist's fire, major Bomb 545 Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

17 Bottled lightning, major Bomb 545 Activate +> Strike 

17 Frost vial, major Bomb 545 This flask filled with corrosive acid deals 1 acid damage, the 


17 Tanglefoot bag, major Bomb 545 listed persistent acid damage, and the listed acid splash damage. 


Many types grant an item bonus to attack rolls. 


Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 
It deals 1d6 persistent acid damage and 1 acid splash damage. 


Type moderate; Level 3; Price 10 gp 
You gain a +1 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 2d6 
persistent acid damage and 2 acid splash damage. 

Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp 

You gain a +2 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 
3d6 persistent acid damage and 3 acid splash damage. 
Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp 

You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 
Ad6 persistent acid damage and 4 acid splash damage. 


ALCHEMIST'S FIRE 


ITEM 1+ 


| ALCHEMICAL | BOMB | CONSUMABLE | FIRE | SPLASH | 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Strike 

Alchemist's fire is a combination of volatile liquids that 
ignite when exposed to air. Alchemist's fire deals the listed 
fire damage, persistent fire damage, and splash damage. Many 
types grant an item bonus to attack rolls. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 

The bomb deals 1d8 fire damage, 1 persistent fire damage, and 
1 fire splash damage. 


You gain a *3 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 4d6 
electricity damage and 4 electricity splash damage. 


ITEM 1+ 


‘| spuasi | 


Activate 9 Strike 


The liquid reagents in this vial rapidly absorb heat 
when exposed to air. A frost vial deals the listed cold 
damage and cold splash damage. On a hit, the target 
takes a status penalty to its Speeds until the end of its 
next turn. Many types of frost vial also grant an item 
bonus to attack rolls. 
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 
The bomb deals 1d6 cold damage and 1 cold splash 
damage, and the target takes a -5-foot penalty. 
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 10 gp 
You gain a *1 item bonus to attack rolls, the bomb deals 
2d6 cold damage and 2 cold splash damage, and the target 
takes a -10-foot penalty. 
Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp 
You gain a *2 item bonus to attack rolls, the bomb deals 3d6 
cold damage and 3 cold splash damage, and the target takes 
a -10-foot penalty. 


Type moderate; Level 3; Price 10 gp 

You gain a *1 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 
2d8 fire damage, 2 persistent fire damage, and 2 fire 
splash damage. 

Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp 

You gain a *2 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb 
deals 3d8 fire damage, 3 persistent fire damage, 
and 3 fire splash damage. 

Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp 

You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb 
deals 4d8 fire damage, 4 persistent fire damage, and 
4 fire splash damage. 


BOTTLED LIGHTNING 

| ALCHEMICAL | BOMB | CONSUMABLE | ELECTRICITY | SPLASH | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate +> Strike 

Bottled lightning is packed with volatile reagents that create 
a blast of electricity when they are exposed to air. Bottled 
lightning deals the listed electricity damage and electricity 
splash damage. On a hit, the target becomes flat-footed until 
the start of your next turn. Many types grant an item bonus 
to attack rolls. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 

It deals 1d6 electricity damage and 1 electricity splash damage. 
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 10 gp 

You gain a *1 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 2d6 
electricity damage and 2 electricity splash damage. 

Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp 

You gain a *2 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 3d6 
electricity damage and 3 electricity splash damage. 

Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp 


ITEM 1+ 


Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp 

You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls, the bomb deals 4d6 
cold damage and 4 cold splash damage, and the target takes 
a -15-foot penalty. 


TANGLEFOOT BAG 
| ALCHEMICAL | BOMB | CONSUMABLE | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Strike 
A tanglefoot bag is filled with sticky substances. 
When you hit a creature with a tanglefoot bag, that 
creature takes a status penalty to its Speeds for 1 minute. 
Many types of tanglefoot bag also grant an item bonus on 
attack rolls. 

On a critical hit, a creature in contact with a solid surface 
becomes stuck to the surface and immobilized for 1 round, 
and a creature flying via wings has its wings tangled, causing 
it to fall safely to the ground and become unable to Fly again 
for 1 round. Tanglefoot bags are not effective when used on a 
creature that is in water. 

Thetarget can end any effects by Escaping or spending a total 
of 3 Interact actions to carefully remove the sticky substances. 
These Interact actions don't have to be consecutive, and other 
creatures can provide the actions as well. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 

The target takes a -10-foot penalty, and the Escape DC is 17. 
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 10 gp 

You gain a +1 item bonus to attack rolls, the target takes a 
-15-foot penalty, and the Escape DC is 19. 

Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp 

You gain a *2 item bonus to attack rolls, the target takes a 
-15-foot penalty, and the Escape DC is 28. 


ITEM 1+ 


EQUIPMENT 
‘SPELLS 
HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


Pw 


. GAME 


98. 
CRAFTING 
| & TREASURE 


we" 


APPEND 
1" 


| 


Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp 
You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls, the target takes a 
-20-foot penalty, and the Escape DC is 37. 


THUNDERSTONE 

EE | Bome | Ee sonic | spass | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Strike 

When this stone hits a creature or a hard surface, it explodes 
with a deafening bang. A thunderstone deals the listed 
sonic damage and sonic splash damage, and each 
creature within 10 feet of the space in which the stone 
exploded must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw with 
the listed DC or be deafened until the end of its next 
turn. Many types of thunderstone grant an item bonus 
to attack rolls. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 

The bomb deals 1d4 sonic damage and 1 sonic splash 
damage, and the DC is 17. 

Type moderate; Level 3; Price 10 gp 

You gain a *1 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb 
deals 2d4 sonic damage and 2 sonic splash damage, 
and the DC is 20. 

Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp 

You gain a *2 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 3d4 
sonic damage and 3 sonic splash damage, and the DC is 28. 


ITEM 1+ 


and a modifier equal to that level’s DC — 10, as found on 
Table 10-5: DCs by Level (page 503). 


ANTIDOTE 


] ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE 


ITEM {+ 


CAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR | HEALING | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 
An antidote protects you against toxins. Upon drinking an 
antidote, you gain an item bonus to Fortitude saving throws 
against poisons for 6 hours. 
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 
You gain a *2 item bonus. 
Type moderate; Level 6; Price 35 gp 
You gain a *3 item bonus. 
Type greater; Level 10; Price 160 gp 
You gain a *4 item bonus. 
Type major; Level 14; Price 675 gp 
You gain a *4 item bonus, and when you drink 
the antidote, you can immediately attempt a save 
against one poison of 14th level or lower affecting 
you. If you succeed, the poison is neutralized. 


ANTIPLAGUE ITEM 1+ 
pETNESTHETDIETI 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate 9 Interact 


Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp 
You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 4d4 
sonic damage and 4 sonic splash damage, and the DC is 36. 


ALCHEMICAL ELIXIRS 
Elixirs are alchemical liquids that are used by 
drinking them. They have the elixir trait. These potent 
concoctions grant the drinker some alchemical benefits. 
While all elixirs follow the same general rules, mutagens 
(described below) have additional rules that apply to 


their use. 


Activatine ELIXIRS 

You usually Interact to activate an elixir as you drink it 
or feed it to another creature. You can feed an elixir only 
to a creature within reach that is either willing or unable 
to prevent you from doing so. You usually need only one 
hand to consume an elixir or feed it to another creature. 


Muracens 
These elixirs, indicated by the mutagen trait, temporarily 
transmogrify the subject’s body and alter its mind. Typically, 
only alchemists have the expertise to craft mutagens, and 
some say they are the only ones reckless enough to use them. 
A mutagen always conveys one or more beneficial effects 
(listed in the Benefit entry) and one or more detrimental 
effects (shown in the Drawback entry). Mutagens 
are polymorph effects (page 301), and a subsequent 
polymorph effect attempts to counteract an existing effect; 
the counteract check for a mutagen uses the item's level 


Antiplague can fortify the body's defenses against diseases. 
Upon drinking an antiplague, you gain an item bonus to 
Fortitude saving throws against diseases for 24 hours; this 
applies to your daily save against a disease's progression. 
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 

You gain a +2 item bonus. 

Type moderate; Level 6; Price 35 gp 

You gain a +3 item bonus. 

Type greater; Level 10; Price 160 gp 

You gain a +4 item bonus. 

Type major; Level 14; Price 675 gp 

You gain a +4 item bonus, and when you drink the antiplague, 
you can immediately attempt a saving throw against one 
disease of 14th level or lower affecting you. If you succeed, 
you are cured of the disease. 


BESTIAL MUTAGEN 
ECTNENTHETADTZUIETTS 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Your features transform into something bestial and you take 
on muscle mass, but your lumbering form is clumsy. 

Benefit You gain an item bonus to Athletics checks and 
unarmed attack rolls. You gain a claw unarmed attack with 
the agile trait and a jaws unarmed attack. 

Drawback You take a -1 penalty to AC and a -2 penalty to 
Reflex saves. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp 
You gain a *1 item bonus, your claw deals 1d4 slashing damage, 
your jaws deal 1d6 piercing damage, and the duration is 1 minute. 


ITEM 1+ 


Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp 

You gain a +2 item bonus, your claw deals 1d6 slashing damage, 
your jaws deal 1d8 piercing damage, and the duration is 
10 minutes. 


Activate *9 Interact 
Enzymatic compounds in this elixir strengthen and excite the 
muscles in your legs. You gain a status bonus to your Speed 
for the listed duration. 


Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp 
You gain a *3 item bonus, your claw deals 1d8 slashing damage, 
your jaws deal 1d10 piercing damage, and the duration is 1 hour. 
Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp 

You gain a *4 item bonus, your claw deals 1d8 slashing damage, 
your jaws deal 1d10 piercing damage, and the duration is 1 
hour. You gain weapon specialization with the claws and 
jaws, or greater weapon specialization, if you already have 
weapon specialization with these unarmed attacks. 


BOMBER'S EVE ELIXIR 

| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 

This tincture lets you pinpoint your foes. For the next 
5 minutes, your alchemical bomb Strikes reduce the 
circumstance bonus to AC your targets gain from cover. 
Type lesser; Level 4; Price 14 gp 

Reduce your targets' circumstance bonus by 1. 
Type greater; Level 14; Price 700 gp 

Reduce your targets' circumstance bonus by 2. 


BRAVO'SBREW — —— 


| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR | MENTAL | 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate ‘> Interact 


ITEM 4+ 


ITEM 2+ 


Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 
The bonus is +5 feet, and the duration is 1 minute. 
Type moderate; Level 5; Price 25 gp 
The bonus is +10 feet, and the duration is 10 minutes. 
Type greater; Level 9; Price 110 gp 

The bonus is +10 feet, and the duration is 1 hour. 


COGNITIVE MUTAGEN - ITEM 1+ 


| AtcHEmicaL | consumaBLe | ELIXIR | MUTAGEN | POLYMORPH | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *> Interact 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 
Your mind becomes clear and cognition flows freely, Ee 
but physical matters seem ephemeral. MS 
Benefit You gain an item bonus to Arcana, Crafting, © HE AGE OF 
Lore, Occultism, and Society checks and all checks  - LOST OMENS 


to Recall Knowledge. Your critical failures on Recall 

Knowledge checks become failures instead. 
Drawback You take a -2 penalty to weapon and 

unarmed attack rolls, Athletics checks, and Acrobatics 

checks. You can carry 2 less Bulk than normal before 

becoming encumbered, and the maximum Bulk you can carry 

is reduced by 4. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp 

The bonus is +1, and the duration is 1 minute. 

Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp 

The bonus is +2, and the duration is 10 minutes. 


PLAYING THE 


LOCA 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


we’ 


This flask of foaming beer grants courage. For the next hour 
after drinking this elixir, you gain an item bonus to Will saves, 
which is greater when attempting Will saves against fear. 


Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp 
The bonus is +3, and the duration is 1 hour. You become trained 
in one Intelligence-based skill, chosen at creation. 


: a NDIX 


Type lesser; Level 2; Price 7 gp 

The bonus on Will saves is +1, or +2 against fear. 

Type moderate; Level 10; Price 150 gp 

The bonus on Will saves is +2, or +3 against fear. 

Type greater; Level 15; Price 700 gp 

The bonus on Will saves is +3, or +4 against fear. If you roll a 
success on a save against fear, you get a critical success instead. 


CAT'S EVE ELIXIR ITEM 2 


| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE 


Price 7 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


After you consume this elixir, your vision sharpens and you 
become sensitive to even the most minute movements. For 
the next minute, you reduce the flat check to target hidden 
creatures to 5, and you don't need to attempt a flat check to 
target concealed creatures. These benefits apply only against 
creatures within 30 feet of you. 


CHEETAH'S ELIXIR 


| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 


ITEM 1+ 


Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp 
The bonus is +4, and the duration is 1 hour. You become 
trained in one skill, chosen at creation. 


COMPREHENSION ELIXIR 

ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR | MENTAL | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 
This bitter draft opens your mind to the potential of the written 
word. For the listed duration after drinking this elixir, you can 
understand any words you read, so long as they are written in 
a common language. This elixir doesn't automatically allow you 
to understand codes or extremely esoteric passages—you still 
need to attempt a skill check to Decipher Writing. 
Type lesser; Level 2; Price 7 gp 
The duration is 1 minute. 
Type greater; Level 7; Price 54 gp 
The duration is 10 minutes. 


DARKVISION ELIXIR 
| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR f 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate 9 Interact 


ITEM 2+ 


ITEM 2+ 


re v DIET i S = 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 3 
sa os ne e e E n Em at ia | 


After you drink this elixir, your sight becomes sharper in 
darkness. You gain darkvision for the listed duration. 
Type lesser; Level 2; Price 6 gp 

The duration is 10 minutes. 

Type moderate; Level 4; Price 11 gp 

The duration is 1 hour. 

Type greater; Level 8; Price 90 gp 

The duration is 24 hours. 


EAGLE-EYE ELIXIR 

| ALCHEMICAL f CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR f 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 

After you drink this elixir, you notice subtle 
visual details. For the next hour, you gain an item 
bonus to Perception checks that is greater when 
attempting to find secret doors and traps. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp 

The bonus is +1, or +2 to find secret doors and traps. 
Type moderate; Level 5; Price 27 gp 

The bonus is +2, or +3 to find secret doors and traps. 
Type greater; Level 10; Price 200 gp 

The bonus is +3, or +4 to find secret doors and traps. 
Type major; Level 16; Price 2,000 gp 

The bonus is +3, or +4 to find secret doors and traps. Each 
time you pass within 10 feet of a secret door or trap, the GM 
automatically rolls a secret check for you to find it. 


ITEM 1+ 


ITEM 1+ 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Elixirs of life accelerate a living creature's natural healing 
processes and immune system. Upon drinking this elixir, you 
regain the listed number of Hit Points and gain an item bonus 
to saving throws against diseases and poisons for 10 minutes. 
Type minor; Level 1; Price 3 gp 

The elixir restores 1d6 Hit Points, and the bonus is +1. 

Type lesser; Level 5; Price 30 gp 

The elixir restores 3d6+6 Hit Points and the bonus is +1. 
Type moderate; Level 9; Price 150 gp 

The elixir restores 5d6+12 Hit Points, and the bonus is +2. 
Type greater; Level 13; Price 600 gp 

The elixir restores 7d6+18 Hit Points, and the bonus is +2. 
Type major; Level 15; Price 1,300 gp 

The elixir restores 8d6+21 Hit Points, and the bonus is +3. 


you're restored to your maximum Hit Points, and all afflictions 
of 20th level or lower affecting you are removed. 

You can instead administer this elixir to a creature that 
has been dead for a week or less. When you do, that creature 
is instantly brought back to life with 1 Hit Point and no spell 
slots, Focus Points, or other daily resources. 

Craft Requirements philosopher's stone, true elixir of life 


INFILTRATOR'S ELIXIR ITEM 2 
ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR 
Price 6 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Favored by spies and tricksters, an infiltrator's 

elixir is used to alter your appearance. When 

imbibed, you take the shape of a humanoid 

creature of your size, but different enough so you 

might be unrecognizable. If you aren't a humanoid, 

you might take on a form more similar to your own, at 
the GM's discretion. 

The creator of the elixir decides the basics of the appearance 
you transform into when you imbibe the elixir, including eye 
color, skin tone, and hair color. The elixir can't change your 
form into that of a specific person. After the form takes hold, 
you retain it for the next 10 minutes. 

Drinking this elixir counts as setting up a disguise to 
Impersonate. You gain a +4 status bonus to your Deception 
DC to avoid others seeing through your disguise, and you add 
your level to this DC even if untrained. 


JUGGERNAUT MUTAGEN 

| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR | MUTAGEN | PoLyMORPH | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

After you drink this mutagen, your body becomes thick and 
sturdy. You exhibit a healthy glow, though you tend to be 
ponderous and unobservant. 

Benefit You gain an item bonus to Fortitude saves and the 
listed number of temporary Hit Points. Whenever you are at 
maximum Hit Points for at least 1 full minute, you regain the 
temporary Hit Points. 

Drawback You take a -2 penalty to Will saves, Perception 
checks, and initiative rolls. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp 
The bonus is +1, you gain 5 temporary Hit Points, and the 
duration is 1 minute. 


‘POLYMORPH | 


ITEM {+ 


Type true; Level 19; Price 8,000 gp 
The elixir restores 10d6+27 Hit Points, and the bonus is +4. 


ELIXIR OF REJUVENATION ITEM 20 


UNCOMMON | ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE 
Price — 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 
The elixir of rejuvenation restores a creature to full health 
and eradicates toxins affecting it. When you drink this elixir, 


ELIXIR || HEALING 


Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp 

The bonus is +2, you gain 10 temporary Hit Points, and the 
duration is 10 minutes. 

Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp 

The bonus is +3, you gain 30 temporary Hit Points, and the 
duration is 1 hour. When you roll a success on a Fortitude 
save, you get a critical success instead. 

Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp 

The bonus is +4, you gain 45 temporary Hit Points, and the 
duration is 1 hour. When you roll a success on a Fortitude save, 


you get a critical success instead, and your critical failures on 
Fortitude saves become failures instead. 


LEAPER'S ELIXIR ITEM 1+ 


E CRAFTING & TREASURE 
eee eee: 


oe 


The bonus to rolls is +4, the bonus to Speed is +20 feet, and 
the duration is 1 hour. 


SALAMANDER ELIXIR ITEM 4+ 


| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR | 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate +> Interact 

This tingly solution increases the elasticity and 
contraction of your leg muscles. For 1 minute after 
drinking this elixir, you can High Jump or Long Jump 
as a single action instead of 2 actions. If you do, you 
don't perform the initial Stride (nor do you fail if you 
dont Stride 10 feet). 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 

Type greater; Level 7; Price 55 gp 

The maximum vertical distance you can jump with a 
High Jump is the same as you can jump horizontally 
with a Long Jump. 


MISTFORM ELIXIR 


ITEM 4« 


| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate ‘> Interact 


ELIXIR | ILLUSION | VISUAL 


Rn es ELIXIR f 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 
This elixir is made from salamander scales to withstand 
fire. For 24 hours, you are protected from the effects 
of severe heat. 
Type lesser; Level 4; Price 15 gp 
Type moderate; Level 12; Price 320 gp 
You're also protected from extreme heat. 
Type greater; Level 16; Price 1,400 gp 
You're also protected from extreme and incredible heat. 


SEA TOUCH ELIXIR 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 
This briny concoction alters the skin on your hands and feet. 
The spaces between your fingers and toes become webbed, 
granting you a swim Speed of 20 feet for the listed duration. 


ITEM 5* 


A faint mist emanates from your skin, making you concealed 
for the listed duration. As usual, if you become concealed when 
your position is still obvious, you can't use this concealment 
to Hide or Sneak. 


Type lesser; Level 5; Price 22 gp 

The duration is 10 minutes. 

Type moderate; Level 12; Price 300 gp 

The duration is 1 hour, and you can breathe underwater. 


Type lesser; Level 4; Price 18 gp 
The duration is 3 rounds. 


Type moderate; Level 6; Price 56 gp 
The duration is 1 minute. 


Type greater; Level 10; Price 180 gp 
The duration is 5 minutes. 


QUICKSILVER MUTAGEN 
i LL — 


ucaL | consumaste | exi f wutacen | powvmonPH | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 
Your features become thin and angular. You become swifter 
and nimbler, but your body also becomes fragile. 

Benefit You gain an item bonus to Acrobatics checks, Stealth 
checks, Thievery checks, Reflex saves, and Dexterity-based 
attack rolls, and you gain the listed status bonus to your Speed. 

Drawback You take damage equal to twice your level; you 
cant recover Hit Points lost in this way by any means while 
the mutagen lasts. You take a -2 penalty to Fortitude saves. 
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp 
The bonus to rolls is +1, the bonus to Speed is +5 feet, and the 
duration is 1 minute. 

Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp 

The bonus to rolls is +2, the bonus to Speed is +10 feet, and 
the duration is 10 minutes. 

Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp 

The bonus to rolls is +3, the bonus to Speed is +15 feet, and 
the duration is 1 hour. 

Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp 


ITEM 1+ 


Type greater; Level 15; Price 920 gp 
The duration is 24 hours, and you can breathe underwater. 


SERENE MUTAGEN ITEM 1+ 
| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR | MUTAGEN 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 

You gain inner serenity, focused on fine details and steeled 
against mental assaults, but you find violence off-putting. 

Benefit You gain an item bonus to Will saves and 
Perception, Medicine, Nature, Religion, and Survival checks. 
This bonus improves when you attempt Will saves against 
mental effects. 

Drawback You take a -1 penalty to attack rolls and save 
DCs of offensive spells, and a -1 penalty per damage die to all 
weapon, unarmed attack, and spell damage. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp 

The bonus is +1, or +2 vs. mental, and the duration is 1 minute. 
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp 

The bonus is *2, or *3 vs. mental, and the duration is 10 minutes. 
Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp 

The bonus is +3, or +4 vs. mental, and the duration is 1 hour. 
When you roll a success on a Will save against a mental effect, 
you get a critical success instead. 

Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp 

The bonus is *4, and the duration is 1 hour. When you roll 
a success on a Will save against a mental effect, you get a 
critical success instead, and your critical failures on Will saves 
against mental effects become failures instead. 


| 
| 
I 


Í 


POLYMORPH 


THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


ne. 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


HF Core BTERGOK x 
eee 5 
SILVERTONGUE MUTAGEN ITEM 1+ 


| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | ELIXIR | MUTAGEN | POLYMORPH | 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Your features become striking and your voice becomes 
musical and commanding, though facts and figures become 
hazy for you and emotion clouds your ability to reason. 

Benefit You gain an item bonus to Deception, Diplomacy, 
Intimidation, and Performance checks. Your critical failures 
with any of these skills become failures instead. 

Drawback You take a -2 item penalty to Arcana, Crafting, 
Lore, Occultism, and Society checks. Choose one skill in which 
you are trained; for the duration, you become untrained in that 
skill. All your failures on checks to Recall Knowledge become 
critical failures. 

Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp 

The bonus is +1, and the duration is 1 minute. 
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp 

The bonus is +2, and the duration is 10 minutes. 
Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp 

The bonus is +3, and the duration is 1 hour. 
Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp 

The bonus is +4, and the duration is 1 hour. 


STONE FIST ELIXIR 


J ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE f ELIXIR: 
Price 13 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Your fists become hard as stone. For 1 hour, your fists deal 1d6 
bludgeoning damage and lose the nonlethal trait. 


WINTER WOLF ELIXIR 
Pcie | consumere Jen} 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 

This elixir warms your core and improves your circulation. For 
24 hours, you are protected from the effects of severe cold. 
Type lesser; Level 4; Price 15 gp 

Type moderate; Level 12; Price 320 gp 

You're also protected from extreme cold. 

Type greater; Level 16; Price 1,400 gp 

You're also protected from extreme and incredible cold. 


ALCHEMICAL POISONS 


Alchemical poisons are potent toxins distilled or extracted 


ITEM 4 


ITEM 4+ 


from natural sources and made either stronger or easier to 
administer. Each poison’s stat block includes the Price and 
features for a single dose. Poison doses are typically kept 
in a vial or some other type of safe and secure container. 
Applying alchemical poisons uses Interact actions. A 
poison typically requires one hand to pour into food 
or scatter in the air. Applying a poison to a weapon or 
another item requires two hands, with one hand holding 
the weapon or item. The Usage entry for a poison 
indicates the number of hands needed for a typical means 


of application, but the GM might determine that using 
poisons in other ways functions differently. 

The full rules for how poisons and other afflictions 
work begin on page 457. A creature attempts the listed 
saving throw as soon as it’s exposed to the poison; on a 
failed save, the creature advances to stage 1 of the poison 
after any listed onset time elapses. 

Some poisons have the virulent trait. This means the 
poison is harder to remove once it has taken effect; see 
Virulent Afflictions on page 458. 


Meron oF Exposure 
Each alchemical poison has one of the following traits, 
which define how a creature can be exposed to that poison. 
Contact: A contact poison is activated by applying it to 
an item or directly onto a living creature’s skin. The first 
creature to touch the affected item must attempt a saving 
throw against the poison; if the poison is applied directly, 
the creature must attempt a saving throw immediately 
when the poison touches its skin. Contact poisons are 
infeasible to apply to a creature via a weapon attack due to 
the logistics of delivering them without poisoning yourself. 
Typically, the onset time of a contact poison is 1 minute. 
Ingested: An ingested poison is activated by applying 
it to food or drink to be consumed by a living creature, 
or by placing it directly into a living creature’s mouth. A 
creature attempts a saving throw against such a poison 
when it consumes the poison or the food or drink treated 
with the poison. The onset time of ingested poisons 
typically ranges anywhere from 1 minute to 1 day. 
Inhaled: An inhaled poison is activated by unleashing 
it from its container. Once unleashed, the poison creates a 
cloud filling a 10-foot cube lasting for 1 minute or until a 
strong wind dissipates the cloud. Every creature entering 
this cloud is exposed to the poison and must attempt a 
saving throw against it; a creature aware of the poison 
before entering the cloud can use a single action to hold 
its breath and gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the saving 
throw for 1 round. 
Injury: An injury poison is activated by applying it to 
a weapon or ammunition, and it affects the target of the 
first Strike made using the poisoned item. If that Strike is 
a success and deals piercing or slashing damage, the target 
must attempt a saving throw against the poison. On a failed 
Strike, the target is unaffected, but the poison remains on 
the weapon and you can try again. On a critical failure, or if 
the Strike fails to deal slashing or piercing damage for some 
other reason, the poison is spent but the target is unaffected. 


ARSENIC ITEM 1 
[acer | consumaete [meester] 
Price 3 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

This toxin is a compound of arsenic and other substances. You 
can't reduce your sickened condition while affected. 


Saving Throw DC 18 Fortitude; Onset 10 minutes; Maximum 
Duration 5 minutes; Stage 1 1d4 poison damage and sickened 
1 (1 minute); Stage 2 1d6 poison damage and sickened 2 (1 
minute); Stage 3 2d6 poison damage and sickened 3 (1 minute) 


BELLADONNA ITEM2 
Price 5 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate > Interact 

Sometimes called “deadly nightshade,” belladonna is a widely 

available toxin produced from a plant similar to a tomato. 

Saving Throw DC 19 Fortitude; Onset 10 minutes; Maximum 
Duration 30 minutes; Stage 1 dazzled (10 minutes); Stage 2 
1d6 poison damage and sickened 1 (10 minutes); Stage 3 1d6 
poison damage, confused, and sickened 1 (1 minute) 


Saving Throw DC 36 Fortitude; Onset 1 round; Maximum 
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 7d6 poison damage and 
enfeebled 1 (1 round); Stage 2 8d6 poison damage and 
enfeebled 2 (1 round); Stage 3 10d6 poison damage and 
enfeebled 3 (1 round) 


CYTILLESH OIL 

Price 10 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate 99 Interact 

This thick substance is distilled from the mind-robbing 

cytillesh fungus, though it lacks memory-altering capabilities. 

Saving Throw DC 19 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 4 rounds; 
Stage 1 1d10 poison damage (1 round); Stage 2 1d12 poison 
damage (1 round); Stage 3 2d10 poison damage (1 round) 


ITEM3 


BLACK ADDER VENOM ITEM2 . DEATHCAP POWDER ITEM 13 
| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | INJURY | POISON | | ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | INGESTED | POISON | 
Price 6 gp Price 450 gp 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *99 Interact 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate «> Interact 


Adder venom is a simple but effective way to enhance a weapon. 

Saving Throw DC 18 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 3 rounds; 
Stage 1 1d8 poison damage (1 round); Stage 2 1d10 poison 
damage (1 round); Stage 3 2d6 poison damage (1 round) 


BLACK LOTUS EXTRACT ITEM 19 


CONSUMABLE | 
Price 6,500 gp — 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


Black lotus extract causes severe internal bleeding. 

Saving Throw DC 42 Fortitude; Onset 1 minute; Maximum 
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 115d6 poison damage and drained 
1 (1 round); Stage 2 17d6 poison damage and drained 1 (1 
round); Stage 3 20d6 poison damage and drained 2 (1round) 


BLIGHTBURN RESIN ITEM 11 


contact | 


| consumaste | 
Price 225 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate «> Interact 


This tacky, hardened sap is harvested from trees infected by 

fungal blights and exposed to open flames. 

Saving Throw DC 31 Fortitude; Onset 1 minute; Maximum 
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 8d6 poison damage (1 round); 
Stage 2 10d6 poison damage (1 round); Stage 3 15d6 poison 
damage (1 round) 


BRIMSTONE FUMES ITEM 16 


| CONSUMABLE | eviL | 
Price 1,500 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


| 


Fumes from the forges of Hell drain health and strength alike. 


The toxic deathcap mushroom can be dried, ground, and 

treated to form a flavorless powder with accelerated effects. 

Saving Throw DC 33 Fortitude; Onset 10 minutes; Maximum 
Duration 6 minutes; Stage 1 13d6 poison damage (1 minute); 
Stage 2 17d6 poison damage and sickened 2 (1 minute); 
Stage 3 20d6 poison damage and sickened 3 (1 minute) 


DRAGON BILE ITEM 15 
| ALCHEMICAL |) CONSUMABLE | CONTACT f POISON f 
Price 925 gp 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *> Interact 

A mix of digestive juices and green dragon poison glands 

nauseates the victim as its flesh is digested from within. 

Saving Throw DC 37 Fortitude; Onset 1 minute; Maximum 
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 6d6 poison damage and sickened 
2 (1 round); Stage 2 7d6 poison damage and sickened 3 (1 
round); Stage 3 9d6 poison damage and sickened 4 (1 round) 


GIANT CENTIPEDE VENOM ITEM 1 


CONSUMABLE INJURY | POISON | 


Price 4 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate +} Interact 


Giant centipede venom causes severe muscle stiffness. 

Saving Throw DC 17 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; 
Stage 1 1d6 poison damage (1 round); Stage 2 1d8 poison 
damage and flat-footed (1 round); Stage 3 1d12 poison 
damage, clumsy 1, and flat-footed (1 round) 


GIANT SCORPION VENOM 
[ oru [ cose | mu. [oso] 


Price 40 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 


ITEM 6 


LOST OMENS 


"PLAYING THE 
GAME 


CRAFTING 


| & TREASURE 


Activate 99 Interact 


Scorpion venom is excruciating and its effects are somewhat 

debilitating. 

Saving Throw DC 22 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; 
Stage 1 1d10 poison damage and enfeebled 1 (1 round); 
Stage 2 2d10 poison damage and enfeebled 1 (1 round); 
Stage 3 2d10 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round) 


GIANT WASP VENOM ITEM7 
Price 55 gp 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate +} Interact 

Giant wasp venom interferes with a victim's movement. 

Saving Throw DC 25 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; 
Stage 1 2d6 poison damage and clumsy 1 (1 round); Stage 2 
3d6 poison damage and clumsy 2 (1 round); Stage 3 4d6 
poison damage and clumsy 2 (1 round) 


GRAVEROOT 

| achemicaL | consumasié | injury | Porson | 

Price 10 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *99 Interact 

The opaque white sap from the graveroot shrub clouds 

the mind. 

Saving Throw DC 19 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 4 rounds; 
Stage 1 1d10 poison damage (1 round); Stage 2 1d12 poison 
damage and stupefied 1 (1 round); Stage 3 2d6 poison 
damage and stupefied 2 (1 round) 


HEMLOCK 

| avcemicat | consumase | incesteD | poison | 

Price 2,250 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Concentrated hemlock is a particularly deadly toxin that halts 

muscle action—including that of the victim's heart. 

Saving Throw DC 40 Fortitude; Onset 30 minutes; Maximum 
Duration 60 minutes; Stage 1 17d6 poison damage and 
enfeebled 2 (10 minutes); Stage 2 21d6 poison damage and 
enfeebled 3 (10 minutes); Stage 3 26d6 poison damage and 
enfeebled 4 (10 minutes) 


ITEM3 


ITEM 17 


KING'S SLEEP 

EEIDNETTUHESUCGHETOUTEN 

Price 4,000 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

King’s sleep is an insidious long-term poison that can seem 

like a disease or even death from natural causes on a 

venerable target. The drained condition from king's sleep is 

cumulative with each failed save and can't be removed while 

the poison lasts. 

Saving Throw DC 41 Fortitude; Onset 1 day; Stage 1 drained 1 
(1 day); Stage 2 drained 1 (1 day); Stage 3 drained 2 (1 day) 


LETHARGY POISON ITEM 2 
EI ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE |INCAPACITATION | INJURY | POISON | 
ECH 


Price 7 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate +} Interact 
Lethargy poison is commonly used in hit-and-run tactics 
by drow and others who want their victims alive; the 
ambusher retreats until the poison sets in and the victim 
falls unconscious. Further exposure to lethargy poison does 
not require the target to attempt additional saving throws; 
only failing an saving throw against an ongoing exposure can 
progress its stage. 

Saving Throw DC 18 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 4 hours; 
Stage 1 slowed 1 (1 round); Stage 2 slowed 1 (1 minute); 
Stage 3 unconscious with no Perception check to wake up 
(1 round) Stage 4 unconscious with no Perception check to 
wake up (1d4 hours) 


ITEM 18 


LICH DUST ITEM 9 
moma 
Price 110 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Dust salvaged from the remains of a destroyed lich has 

paralytic properties that make it a valuable poison. 

Saving Throw DC 28 Fortitude; Onset 10 minutes; Maximum 
Duration 6 minutes; Stage 1 fatigued (1 minute); Stage 2 
5d6 poison damage and fatigued (1 minute); Stage 3 5d6 
poison damage, fatigued, and paralyzed (1 minute) 


ITEM 7 


HUNTING SPIDER VENOM ITEM 5 
| accuemicat | consumas.e | injury | poison | 
Price 25 gp 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *99 Interact 


MALYASS ROOT PASTE 

| Aucemical | consumase | contact | Poise 
Price 55 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *99? Interact 


This venom erodes its target's defenses, aiding the spider in 

securing prey. 

Saving Throw DC 21 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; 
Stage 1 1d10 poison damage and flat-footed (1 round); 
Stage 2 1d12 poison damage, clumsy 1, and flat-footed 
(1 round); Stage 3 2d6 poison damage, clumsy 2, and 
flat-footed (1 round) 


Malyass root paste sees use to impede opponents in athletic 

competitions, in addition to espionage and tracking. 

Saving Throw DC 26 Fortitude; Onset 1 minute; Maximum 
Duration 6 minutes; Stage 1 clumsy 1 and -10-foot status 
penalty to all Speeds (1 minute); Stage 2 clumsy 2 and -20-foot 
status penalty to all Speeds (1 minute); Stage 3 clumsy 3, 
flat-footed, and -30-foot status penalty to all Speeds 


MINDFOG MIST ITEM 15 
Price 1,000 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Mindfog mist can be used to undermine spellcasters, as its 

effect on a victim's mental faculties are swift and powerful. 

Saving Throw DC 35 Fortitude; Onset 1 round; Maximum 
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 stupefied 2 (1 round); Stage 2 
confused and stupefied 3 (1 round); Stage 3 confused and 
stupefied 4 (1 round) 


NETTLEWEED RESIDUE 


| achemicaL | consuMaBLe | 

Price 75 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Concentrated sap of stinging weeds makes an effective toxin. 

Saving Throw DC 27 Fortitude; Onset 1 minute; Maximum 
Duration 6 minutes; Stage 1 8d6 poison damage (1 minute); 
Stage 2 10d6 poison damage (1 minute); Stage 3 13d6 


poison damage (1 minute) 


NIGHTMARE VAPOR 

| aucuemicaL | consumasce f inaen | poison f 

Price 1,400 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Purportedly sourced from any number of outlandish locales, 

nightmare vapor is most often created by boiling the sweat 

collected from humanoids caught in the throes of terrible 
nightmares. 

Saving Throw DC 36 Fortitude; Onset 1 round; Maximum 
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 confused (1 round); Stage 2 
confused and flat-footed (1 round); Stage 3 confused, flat- 
footed, and stupefied 2 (1 round) 


ITEM8 


contact | Poison | 


ITEM 16 


PURPLE WORM VENOM ITEM 13 
| ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | INJURY | POISON | 
Price 500 gp 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate 99 Interact 

Venom from enormous purple worms leaves a victim weakened. 

Saving Throw DC 32 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; 
Stage 1 5d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round); Stage 
2 6d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round); Stage 3 
8d6 poison and enfeebled 2 (1 round) 


SHADOW ESSENCE 


ITEM 10 


& CRAFTING & TREASURE 
li mtm — RO ne 


a a. 


Saving Throw DC 29 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; 
Stage 1 3d6 negative damage and 2d6 poison damage 
(1 round); Stage 2 3d6 negative damage, 2d6 poison 
damage, and enfeebled 1 (1 round); Stage 3 3d6 negative 
damage, 2d6 poison damage, and enfeebled 2 (1 round) 


SLUMBER WINE ITEM 12 

EE 

Price 325 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Slumber wine sees its greatest use in games of intrigue, 

where an absence can be more devastating than injury. 

Characters unconscious from slumber wine can't wake up by 

any means while the poison lasts, don't need to eat or drink 

while unconscious in this way, and appear to be recently dead 

unless an examiner succeeds at a DC 40 Medicine check. 

Saving Throw DC 32 Fortitude; Onset 1 hour; Maximum 
Duration 7 days; Stage 1 unconscious (1 day); Stage 2 
unconscious (2 days); Stage 3 unconscious (3 days) 


SPIDER ROOT 


| avcuewicat | consumasve | contact f poison f 

Price 110 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

A paste made by mashing the fine, threadlike roots of a certain 

creeper vine, spider root renders a victim clumsy and maladroit. 

Saving Throw DC 28 Fortitude; Onset 1 minute; Maximum 
Duration 6 minutes; Stage 18d6 poison damage and clumsy 
1 (1 minute); Stage 2 9d6 poison damage and clumsy 2 
(1 minute); Stage 3 10d6 poison damage and clumsy 3 
(1 minute) 


TEARS OF DEATH 

En Rs | contact f Poison 

Price 12,000 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *> Interact 

Tears of death are among the most powerful of alchemical 

poisons, distilled from extracts of five other deadly poisons in 

just the right ratios. 

Saving Throw DC 46 Fortitude; Onset 1 minute; Maximum 
Duration 10 minutes; Stage 1 18d6 poison damage and 
paralyzed (1 round); Stage 2 25d6 poison damage and 
paralyzed (1 minute); Stage 3 30d6 poison damage and 
paralyzed (1 minute) 


WOLFSBANE 


CONSUMABLE | INGESTED 


POISON | SLEEP 


ITEM 9 


ITEM 20 


ETT 


ITEM 10 


| ALCHEMICAL | coNsuMaBLE | mury | NEGATIVE | Poison | 
Price 160 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 


Activate *99 Interact 


ALCHEMICAL | 
Price 155 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


Distilled from the Plane of Shadow, this oily substance 
imposes tenebrous effects. The enfeebled condition from 
shadow essence lasts for 24 hours. 


Wolfsbane appears in folklore for its link to werecreatures. If 
you are afflicted with the curse of a werecreature and survive 
stage 3 of wolfsbane, you're immediately cured of the curse. 


EQUIPMENT 
SPELLS 
Ew 


D" | 
| THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


i PLAYING THE 
-. BAME 


— 9.0. 
| CRAFTING 
| & TREASURE 


= wan DIET e ge omn mco aper 
) | F CORE RULEBOOK 4 
2 Do i el i i - ap = = 


Saving Throw DC 30 Fortitude; Onset 10 minutes; Maximum 
Duration 6 minutes; Stage 1 12d6 poison damage (1 minute); 
Stage 2 16d6 poison damage (1 minute); Stage 3 20d6 
poison damage (1 minute) 


WYVERN POISON 

| aucemicar | consumasue | inury f poison 

Price 80 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *99 Interact 

Properly harvested and preserved, the poison 

from a wyvern's sting is effective and direct. 

Saving Throw DC 26 Fortitude; Maximum 
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 5d6 poison 
damage (1 round); Stage 2 6d6 poison damage 
(1 round); Stage 3 8d6 poison damage (1 round) 


ITEM8 


ALCHEMICAL TOOLS 

Alchemical tools are consumable items you don’t drink. 
PHILOSOPHER'S STONE ITEM 20 
[oos [conn [cocoa 

Price — 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2 

Activate > Interact or 1 or more days; see below 

An alchemist with the Craft Philosophers Stone feat can 
create a philosopher's stone once per month by spending 1 
batch of infused reagents during their daily preparations 
using the advanced alchemy class feature. This is the only 
way to create a philosopher's stone. 

At a glance, a philosopher's stone appears to be an ordinary, 
sooty piece of natural rock. Breaking the rock open with 
a Force Open action (DC 35) reveals a cavity at the stone's 
heart. The cavity is lined with a rare type of quicksilver that 
can transmute base metals into precious metals or create an 
elixir of rejuvenation (page 548). 

To use the quicksilver, you must be legendary in Crafting 
and have the Alchemical Crafting feat. You can then use the 
stones quicksilver for one of two effects: 

* You can apply the stone's quicksilver to an 
infused true elixir of life using an Interact 
action. This turns the elixir into an infused elixir 
of rejuvenation instantaneously. This doesnt 
require any crafting time or additional materials. 

* You can spend up to a month of downtime applying 
the quicksilver either to iron to create silver or to lead 
to create gold. Treat this as a 20th-level task to Earn 
Income using Crafting, except that you create 500 gp 
worth of your chosen metal per day on a success or 
750 gp worth per day on a critical success. 


SILVERSHEEN 


ITEM 2 


ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | 
Price 6 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


You can slather this silvery paste onto one melee weapon, 
one thrown weapon, or 10 pieces of ammunition. Silversheen 
spoils quickly, so once you open a vial, you must use it all 
at once, rather than saving it. For the next hour, the weapon 
or ammunition counts as silver instead of its normal precious 
material (such as cold iron) for any physical damage it deals. 


SMOKESTICK 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 
With a sharp twist of this item, you 
instantly create a screen of thick, opaque 
smoke in a burst centered on one corner of 
your space. All creatures within that area are 
concealed, and all other creatures are concealed to 
them. The smoke lasts for 1 minute or until dispersed by 
a strong wind. 
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp 
The radius of the burst is 5 feet. 
Type greater; Level 7; Price 53 gp 
The radius of the burst is 20 feet. 


SNAKE OIL 

[ aucuemica | consumaste | 
Price 2 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

You can apply snake oil onto a wound or other outward 

symptom of an affliction or condition (such as sores from a 

disease or discoloration from a poison). For the next hour, the 

symptom disappears and the wounded or afflicted creature 

doesn't feel as if it still has the wound or affliction, though all 

effects remain. A creature can uncover the ruse by succeeding 

at a DC 17 Perception check, but only if it uses a Seek action 

to specifically examine the snake oil's effects. 


ITEM 1+ 


ITEM 1 


SUNROD ITEM 1 
Price 3 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

This 1-foot-long, gold-tipped rod glows after it's struck on a 
hard surface. For the next 6 hours, it sheds bright light in a 
20-foot radius (and dim light to the next 40 feet). 


TINDERTWIG 


ALCHEMICAL | CONSUMABLE | FIRE 

Price 2 sp E 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — 

Activate *9 Interact 

Analchemical substance applied to one end of this tiny wooden 
stick ignites when struck against a rough surface. Creating a 
flame with a tindertwig is much faster than creating a flame 
with flint and steel. You can ignite the tindertwig and touch 
it to a flammable object as part of the same Interact action. 


ITEM 1 


ARMOR 
Suits of armor can be crafted from precious materials or 
infused with magic to grant them abilities exceeding those 
of typical armor. Many suits of magic armor are created 
by etching runes onto them, as described on page 580. 
The magic armor stat block lists the Price and 
attributes of the most common armors you can 
make with fundamental runes. Other special 
suits of armor might be made of precious 

materials, and some are specially crafted 4f 
items all on their own. 


PRECIOUS MATERIAL ARMOR 


Suits of armor made of precious 
materials are more expensive and 
sometimes grant special effects. 
You can make leather armor 
out of dragonhide, wooden 
armor out of darkwood, and metal armor 
out of any precious materials except for 
darkwood. Because armor’s Bulk is 
reduced when the armor is worn, use 
its carried Bulk when determining 
its material Price. (Materials are on 
page 577.) 


ADAMANTINE ARMOR ITEM 12+ 


Usage worn armor; Bulk varies by 
armor 

Adamantine armor has a shiny, black appearance and is 

amazingly durable. 

Type standard-grade adamantine armor; Level 12; Price 
1,600 gp + 160 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements The initial 
raw materials must include adamantine worth at least 
200 gp + 20 gp per Bulk. 


Type high-grade cold iron armor; Level 18; Price 20,000 gp + 
2,000 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements The initial raw 
materials must include cold iron worth at least 10,000 gp + 
1,000 gp per Bulk. 


DARKWOOD ARMOR ITEM 12+ 


Usage worn armor; Bulk varies by armor 

Darkwood armor is 1 Bulk lighter than normal (or 
Light Bulk if its normal Bulk is 1, with no effect on 

& armor that normally has light Bulk). It's easier 
to wear than normal wood armor, reducing 
the Strength score necessary to ignore its 
X. check penalty by 2 and reducing its Speed 
2 penalty by 5 feet. (There are no types of 
à. wood armor in this book.) 
Type  standard-grade ^ darkwood 
armor; Level 12; Price 1,600 gp * 160 gp per Bulk; 
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must 
. include darkwood worth at least 200 gp + 20 gp 
L per Bulk. 
» Type high-grade darkwood armor; Level 19; 
Price 32,000 gp + 3,200 gp per Bulk; Craft 
Requirements The initial raw materials must 
include darkwood worth at least 16,000 gp 

+ 1,600 gp per Bulk. 


DRAGONHIDE ARMOR 


ITEM 12+ 


Usage worn armor; Bulk varies by armor 

Dragonhide armor is immune to one damage type based 
on the type of dragon it is made from (as listed in the 
table on page 579). Wearing armor made from dragonhide 
also grants you a +1 circumstance bonus to your AC and 
saving throws against attacks and spells that deal the 
corresponding damage type. 


Type high-grade adamantine armor; Level 19; Price 
32,000 gp + 3,200 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements The 
initial raw materials must include adamantine worth at 
least 16,000 gp + 1,600 gp per Bulk. 


COLD IRON ARMOR 

Usage worn armor; Bulk varies by armor 

Cold iron armor sickens certain creatures that touch it. A 

creature with weakness to cold iron (such as most demons 

and fey) that critically fails an unarmed attack against a 

creature in cold iron armor becomes sickened 1. A creature 

with weakness to cold iron is sickened 1 as long as it wears 
cold iron armor. 

Type low-grade cold iron armor; Level 5; Price 140 gp + 14 gp 
per Bulk; Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must 
include cold iron worth at least 70 sp + 7 sp per Bulk 

Type standard-grade cold iron armor; Level 11; Price 
1,200 gp + 120 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements The initial 
raw materials must include at least 150 gp of cold iron + 
15 gp per Bulk. 


ITEM 5+ 


Type standard-grade dragonhide armor; Level 12; Price 
1,600 gp + 160 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements The initial 
raw materials must include dragonhide worth at least 
200 gp + 20 gp per Bulk. 

Type high-grade dragonhide armor; Level 19; Price 
32,000 gp + 3,200 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements The 
initial raw materials must include dragonhide worth at 
least 16,000 gp + 1,600 gp per Bulk. 


ELVEN CHAIN 


ITEM 13+ 


Usage worn armor; Bulk L 

Elven chain is a chain shirt made of mithral (page 579) that 
glitters in even the faintest light. Because it's constructed 
with small, supple rings, it has no check penalty. 

Created by elven artisans employing ancient crafting 
techniques, elven chain is exceptionally quiet. Unlike other 
chain shirts—even other mithral chain shirts—elven chain 
does not have the noisy trait. This suit of armor can be 
etched with runes like any other mithral chain shirt. 


as 


M ad | 


PMENT 


SPELLS 


- THE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


- PLAYING THE 
125 GAME 


$ » 
_ MASTERING 


m 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


cae | 


JATHFINDER ) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
ee 9 oL ———. — L5 
ARMOR ALTERNATIVES 


If you don't want to wear armor, or you're trained in 
only unarmored defense, you can wear either explorer's 
clothing or bracers of armor. Explorers clothing can be 
etched with runes just like armor can, so it can provide 
item bonuses to AC or saves. 

Bracers of armor give a *1 item bonus to AC with a Dex 
modifier cap of +5, and they also grant a bonus to saves. 
This item can be found on page 607. 


Type standard-grade elven chain; Level 13; Price 2,500 gp; 
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include 
mithral worth at least 3,125 sp. 


Type high-grade elven chain; Level 20; Price 52,000 gp; 
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include 
mithral worth at least 26,000 gp. 


MITHRAL ARMOR ITEM 12+ 


Usage worn armor; Bulk varies by armor 

Mithral armor is 1 Bulk lighter than normal (or 
light Bulk if its normal Bulk is 1, with no 
effect on armor that normally has light 

Bulk). It's easier to wear than normal 

metal armor, reducing the Strength 

score necessary to ignore its check 
penalty by 2 and reducing its Speed 
penalty by 5 feet. 

Type standard-grade mithral armor; 
Level 12; Price 1,600 gp + 160 gp per Bulk; 
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials 
must include mithral worth at least 200 gp * 
20 gp per Bulk. 

Type high-grade mithral armor; Level 19; 
Price 32,000 gp * 3,200 gp per Bulk; Craft 
Requirements The initial raw materials must include 
mithral worth at least 16,000 gp + 1,600 gp per Bulk. 


ORICHALCUM ARMOR ITEM 20 

Usage les armor; Bulk varies by armor 

Orichalcum armor can be etched with four magic property 

runes instead of three due to the magical empowerment of 

orichalcum. If you are wearing armor made of orichalcum, the 
armor grants you insights into the future, granting you a +1 
circumstance bonus to initiative rolls. 

Type high-grade orichalcum armor; Level 20; Price 
55,000 gp + 5,500 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements The 
initial raw materials must include orichalcum worth at least 
27,500 gp + 2,/50 gp per Bulk. 


SILVER ARMOR 


Usage worn armor; Bulk varies by armor 
Silver armor sickens certain creatures that touch it. A 
creature with weakness to silver that critically fails an 


ITEM 5+ 


unarmed attack against a creature in silver armor becomes 

sickened 1. A creature with weakness to silver is sickened 1 

as long as it wears silver armor. 

Type low-grade silver armor; Level 5; Price 140 gp + 14 gp per 
Bulk; Craft Requirements silver worth at least 70 sp + 7 sp 
per Bulk 

Type standard-grade silver armor; Level 11; Price 1,200 gp + 
120 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements The initial raw materials 
must include silver worth at least 150 gp + 15 gp per Bulk. 

Type high-grade silver armor; Level 18; Price 20,000 gp + 
2,000 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements The initial raw 
materials must include silver worth at least 10,000 gp + 
1,000 gp per Bulk. 


BASIC MAGIC ARMOR 


The most common special armors are suits of armor with 


some combination of armor potency and resilient runes. 
The following stat block provides a quick reference for 
these types of armor. 


MAGIC ARMOR 


Usage worn armor; Bulk varies by armor 

A suit of magic armor is simply a suit of 

armor or explorer’s clothing etched with 

fundamental runes. An armor potency 
rune increases the armor’s item bonus 
to AC, and a resilient rune adds an item 
bonus to saving throws. 

The Prices here are for all types of armor. 
You don't need to adjust the Price from leather 
armor to full plate or the like. These armors 
are made of standard materials, not precious 
materials such as mithral. 

Type +7 armor; Level 5; Price 160 gp 

This armor has a +1 armor potency rune (increase the 

item bonus to AC by 1). 

Type +1 resilient armor; Level 8; Price 500 gp 

This armor has a *1 armor potency rune (increase the item 

bonus to AC by 1) and a resilient rune (+1 item bonus to saves). 

Type +2 resilient armor; Level 11; Price 1,400 gp 

This armor has a *2 armor potency rune (increase the 

item bonus to AC by 2) and a resilient rune (+1 item bonus 

to saves). 

Type +2 greater resilient armor; Level 14; Price 4,500 gp 

This armor has a +2 armor potency rune (increase the item 

bonus to AC by 2) and a greater resilient rune (*2 item bonus 

to saves). 

Type +3 greater resilient armor; Level 18; Price 24,000 gp 

This armor has a +3 armor potency rune (increase the item 

bonus to AC by 3) and a greater resilient rune (*2 item bonus 

to saves). 

Type +3 major resilient armor; Level 20; Price 70,000 gp 

This armor has a +3 armor potency rune (increase the item 

bonus to AC by 3) and a major resilient rune (*3 item bonus 

to saves). 


ITEM 5+ 


SPECIFIC MAGIC ARMOR 


These suits of armor have abilities far different from 
what can be gained by etching runes. A specific magic 
armor lists its fundamental runes, which you can 
upgrade, add, or transfer as normal. You can’t etch or 
transfer any property runes onto a specific armor that it 
doesn’t already have or remove its property runes. 


BREASTPLATE OF COMMAND ITEM 10+ 


| ENCHANTMENT | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 

Usage worn armor; Bulk 2 

This +1 resilient breastplate is 

made from shining bronze overlaid 

with reinforcing golden panels in 
the shape of lion's heads. Wearing 

this breastplate grants you a 

commanding aura. You gain a 

+2 item bonus to Diplomacy 

checks, but you take a -2 item 4 

penalty to Stealth checks to 

Hide and Sneak and Deception 

checks to Impersonate. 

Activate * command; Frequency once per 
day; Effect You grant allies within 100 feet a 
*2 status bonus to saves against fear effects 
for 1 minute. When you activate this ability, 
each affected ally who's frightened reduces 
their frightened value by 1. 

Type breastplate of command; Level 10; Price 1,000 gp 

Type greater breastplate of command; Level 18; Price 22,000 gp 

The armor is a *2 greater resilient breastplate. The item bonus 

and penalty increase to +3 and -3, respectively. 


CELESTIAL ARMOR 

| Divine | coon | investe | TRANSMUTATION f 

Price 2,500 gp 

Usage worn armor; Bulk 1 

This suit of +2 resilient chain mail is made of fine white 

links of a strange and slightly translucent pale metal, and 

the sleeves and skirt are fashioned into smaller trails that 
resemble feathers. Unlike normal chain mail, celestial armor 
has no Speed reduction, its armor check penalty is 0, and its 

Bulk is 1. 

You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to AC and saving throws 
against fiends. You appear radiant while you wear the armor, 
giving you a +2 item bonus to Diplomacy checks against all 
creatures except fiends. 

If you are not good, you are drained 2 while wearing 
celestial armor. You can't recover from this condition while 
wearing the armor. 

Activate *$ command; Frequency once per day; Effect The 
armor sprouts glowing wings that grant you a fly Speed of 
30 feet. The wings shed bright light in a 40-foot radius (and 
dim light to the next 40 feet). The wings fade away after 
10 minutes. 

Craft Requirements You are good. 


ITEM 13 


DEMONARMOR — — 


f ovne f evi | vesten | necromancy | 


ITEM 13 


Price 2,500 gp 
Usage worn armor; Bulk 4 


Crafted from black iron, this crude suit of +2 resilient full plate 
is designed to make you look like a horned demon, with your 
face peering out of the screaming maw of the beast. 

While wearing the armor, you can attack with the helmet's 
horns. They are a martial melee weapon with the effects of a 
*2 weapon potency rune. They deal 2d8 
piercing damage and have the deadly d12 
trait. On a critical hit with the horns, the 
target must attempt a DC 30 Fortitude 
save against the Abyssal plague disease 
(page 316). The horns can't be etched 
with any runes. 

If you arent evil, you're 
drained 2 and can't recover from 
this condition while wearing 
demon armor. 
Activate *99: command; Frequency 
once per day; Effect You cast 
dimension door. 
Craft Requirements You are evil; supply one casting 
of dimension door. 


DRAGONPLATE 

| UNCOMMON | Evocation | INVESTED | MAGICAL 

Price 10,000 gp 

Usage worn armor; Bulk 4 

This suit of +2 greater resilient dragonhide full plate makes you 

look like a fearsome dragon. The armor comes in 10 varieties 

corresponding to the 10 common dragon types, though other 
varieties undoubtedly exist. 

Activate *99 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You 
unleash a bout of dragon breath with a shape, damage type, 
and saving throw corresponding to the type of dragon used 
to make the armor (shown on the table below). The breath 
weapon deals 14d6 damage; each creature in the area must 
attempt a DC 36 basic saving throw. 


ITEM 16 


Protects 
DragonType Against Breath Weapon (Save) 
Black or copper acid ^ 30-foot line of acid (Reflex) 
Blue or bronze electricity 30-foot line of electricity (Reflex) 


Brass fire — 30-foot line of fire (Reflex) 
Green poison 15-foot cone of poison (Fortitude) 
Gold or red fire  15-foot cone of fire (Reflex) 


Silver or white cold ^ 15-foot cone of cold (Reflex) 


Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include 
1,250 gp of dragonhide. 


ELECTRIC EELSKIN 


| INVESTED | MAGICAL 
Price 950 gp 


ITEM 10 


TRANSMUTATION | 


EQUIPMENT 
ES 


SPELLS 
tr 


x 
Im 
. THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


aN 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


ie 
RULEBOOK 4 


Usage worn armor; Bulk 1 

Shining, slippery eelskin covers the plates of this +1 resilient 

greater slick leather armor. The armor gives you the ability 

to breathe water and grants you a +2 item bonus to Athletics 

checks to Swim and Stealth checks you attempt in the water. 

Activate *99- command, Interact; Frequency once per hour; 
Effect You cast a 2nd-level shocking grasp with a spell attack 
modifier of +19. 


MAIL OF LUCK 

J pivination f vesten | MAGICAL 

Price 2,600 gp 

Usage worn armor; Bulk 3 

This suit of +2 resilient splint mail has a large, green gemstone 

inset in a prominent location. 

Activate © envision; Frequency once per day; Trigger You 
are hit or critically hit with an attack, but damage hasn't 
been rolled yet; Effect You force the attacker to reroll the 
attack roll and use the worse result. This effect has the 
misfortune trait. 

Activating the armor causes the gemstone to turn gray 
and become inert. You cannot activate the armor again 
until the stone returns to its original green color. The gem 
turns green again after 1 week or when a significant foe 
critically succeeds at an attack roll targeting you. (If an 
enemy rolls a critical success at an attack against you and 
you force the attacker to reroll that critical success, that 
critical success does not recharge the mail of luck.) Even 
if the armor's power returns before a week has elapsed, it 
cant be activated more than once per day. 


MOONLIT CHAIN 


|. DIVINATION | INVESTED 
Price 360 gp 


Usage worn armor; Bulk 2 


ITEM 13 


ITEM 7 


| MAGICAL 


Craft Requirements Supply one casting of shocking grasp. 


GHOUL HIDE ITEM 6 


UNCOMMON || 
Price 220 gp 


Usage worn armor; Bulk 2 


This +1 silver chain shirt has a collar adorned with stitched 

images of the phases of the moon. You can see in moonlight 

as though you had low-light vision. 

Activate *> Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You 
touch the stitched image of the new moon on the armor's 
collar and suppress the dazzled condition for 1 minute. 


Stitched together from pieces of ghoul skin, this suit of +1 
hide armor grants you a +1 item bonus to saving throws 
against disease and paralysis and makes you immune to the 
paralysis of ghouls. Ghoul hide with a resilient rune increases 
the resilient rune’s item bonus to saving throws against 
disease and paralysis by 1 (maximum +4). 

Ghoul hide hisses with sibilant hatred at the touch of 
elves. When worn by a creature with the elf trait, the armor 
gains the noisy trait. 


IMPENETRABLE SCALE 

UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | INVESTED | MAGICAL 
Price 12,800 gp 

Usage worn armor; Bulk 3 

Made of overlapping, lustrous black scales of standard-grade 
adamantine, this +2 greater resilient fortification adamantine 
scale mail seems to momentarily thicken at the point of impact 
when hit. Whenever the armor’s fortification rune successfully 
turns a significant foe's critical hit into a normal hit, one of the 
scales on the armor turns violet. You gain resistance to physical 
damage equal to the number of violet scales, to a maximum of 8. 

At dawn each day, all the violet scales return to normal. 


ITEM 17 


Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include 
33 gp of silver. 


PLATE ARMOR OF THE DEEP 


| UNCOMMON | | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 
Price 6,500 gp 
Usage worn armor; Bulk 4 

This suit of +2 greater resilient full plate is decorated with 
swirling, ornate motifs of waves and fish scales. While 
wearing it, you take no Speed reduction or check penalty 
from armor when Swimming, gain a *2 item bonus to 
Athletics checks to Swim, can breathe underwater, and can 


speak Aquan. 


RHINO HIDE 


ITEM 15 


ITEM 9 


INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 


Price 700 gp 


Usage worn armor; Bulk 2 

This +1 resilient hide armor is made from rhinoceros hide. It 
has an armor check penalty of -1 instead of -2. When you 
use the Sudden Charge class feat while wearing this armor, 
your Strike deals an additional 1d8 damage. 


Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include 
1,600 gp of adamantine. 


Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include 
320 gp of rhinoceros hide (a common material). 


CONSUMABLES 


This section includes magic items with the consumable 
trait. An item with this trait can be used only once. Unless 
stated otherwise, it is destroyed after activation. When 
a character creates consumable items, they can make 
them in batches of four, as described in the Craft activity. 
Consumables includes the following subcategories, with 
any special rules appearing at the start of the section. 

* Ammunition begins on this page. 

* Oils appear on page 561. 

* Potions are described on page 562. 

* Scrolls are listed on page 564. 

* Talismans begin on page 565. 

* Other Consumables begins on page 570. 


AMMUNITION 


These magic items are ammunition for ranged weapons. 
Each item’s stat block includes an Ammunition entry that 
lists which type of ammunition it can be Crafted as, or 
“any” if it’s not limited to any particular type. All stat 
blocks for ammunition omit the Usage and Bulk entries; use 
the standard rules in Chapter 6: Equipment for the type of 
ammunition to determine reloading times and Bulk. 

When using magic ammunition, use your ranged 
weapon’s fundamental runes to determine the attack 
modifier and damage dice. Don’t add the effects of your 
weapon’s property runes unless the ammunition states 
otherwise—the ammunition creates its own effects. Magic 
ammunition deals damage on a hit normally in addition 
to any listed effects unless its description states otherwise. 

Regardless of whether an attack with magic ammunition 
hits or misses, launching the ammunition consumes its 
magic. Magic ammunition is made of normal materials, 
not precious materials, unless stated otherwise. 


Activaten AMMUNITION 

If magic ammunition doesn’t have an Activate entry, it’s 
activated automatically when it’s launched. Types of magic 
ammunition that have an Activate entry must be activated 
with additional actions before being used. Once you activate 
the ammunition, you must shoot it before the end of your 
turn. Otherwise, it deactivates (but it isn’t consumed) and 
you must activate it again before you can use it. If you shoot 
the ammunition without activating it first, it functions as 
non-magical ammunition and is still consumed. 

The action required to activate the ammunition doesn’t 
alter how many actions it takes to reload. For example, 
you could activate a beacon shot arrow by touching it with 
1 action, then draw and shoot the arrow as part of a Strike 
as normal. For a beacon shot bolt, you could activate it, 
load it into a crossbow, then shoot it, or load it into the 
crossbow, then activate it, and then shoot it. 


ITEM 3 


=) 
1 
=j 
A 


Ammunition arrow, bolt 
Activate *9 Interact 
The shaft of a beacon shot is studded with tiny flecks of 
glimmering gemstones. When an activated beacon shot hits a 
target, it embeds itself into that target and spews sparks for 
1 minute. If the target is invisible, it becomes merely hidden 
to creatures who would otherwise be unable to see it. The 
sparks also negate the concealed condition if the target was 
otherwise concealed. 

A creature can remove the arrow or bolt by using an Interact 
basic action and succeeding at a DC 20 Athletics check. 


CLIMBING BOLT ITEM 4 


| CONJURATION | CONSUMABLE 
Price 15 gp 
Ammunition bolt 

The shaft of this bolt is wrapped with fine twine. When the 
bolt strikes a solid surface, the twine unwinds and enlarges 
into a 50-foot-long rope, securely fastened to the surface the 
bolt struck. The rope can be pulled free with an Interact action 


and a successful DC 20 Athletics check. 


DISINTEGRATION BOLT 

UNCOMMON | CONSUMABLE | Evocation | | 
Price 1,300 gp 

Ammunition bolt 

Activate ‘> Interact 

The shaft of this bolt is scorched and blackened, and handling 
it coats your fingers with a fine black powder. When an 
activated disintegration bolt hits a target, it is subject to a 
disintegrate spell requiring a DC 34 Fortitude save. As with 
the spell, a critical hit on the attack roll causes the target’s 
saving throw outcome to be one degree worse. 

Craft Requirements Supply one casting of disintegrate. 


EXPLOSIVE AMMUNITION ITEM 9+ 


| FRE | MacicaL 


| macicat | 


ITEM 15 


| CONSUMABLE | Evocation 
Ammunition any 
Activate 9 Interact 


This piece of ammunition is coated in gritty black soot. When 
activated explosive ammunition hits a target, the missile 
explodes in a 10-foot burst, dealing 6d6 fire damage to each 
creature in the area (including the target). Each creature must 
attempt a DC 25 basic Reflex save. 

Type explosive ammunition; Level 9; Price 130 gp 

Type greater explosive ammunition; Level 13; Price 520 gp 
The damage is 10d6 and the save DC is 30. 


GHOST AMMUNITION 
Ammunition any 

Price 900 gp 

Ghost ammunition is cool to the touch. This ammunition has 
the benefits of the ghost touch property rune and can fly 
through any obstacle except those that can block incorporeal 
creatures or effects. Though the ammunition penetrates 


ITEM 14 


"n 


| 
| 


EQUIPMENT 
WE 


SPELLS 
GT 


a 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


Le. 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


SATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 4 


barriers and ignores all cover, the target still benefits from 
the flat check from being concealed or hidden. You still can't 
target an undetected creature without guessing. 

After it is launched, the ammunition vanishes into mist. 
However, in the dead of the night 1d4 days later, it reappears 
in the last quiver or other container it was taken from. 


PENETRATING AMMUNITION ITEM 12 
Í CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 

Price 400 gp 

Ammunition arrow, bolt 

Activate *9 Interact 


the ammunition can hold, and the spell must be able to target 
a creature other than the caster. A creature hit by activated 
spellstrike ammunition is targeted by the spell. If the creature 
isnt a valid target for the spell, the spell is lost. 

The ammunition affects only the target hit, even if the 
spell would normally affect more than one target. If the spell 
requires a spell attack roll, use the result of your ranged attack 
roll with the ammunition to determine the degree of success 
of the spell. If the spell requires a saving throw, the target 
attempts the save against your spell DC. 

The maximum level of spell the ammunition can hold 
determines its item level and Price. 


This ammunition has a slender shape and a viciously pointed 
tip. When you activate and shoot penetrating ammunition, the 
Strike takes the shape of a 60-foot line originating from you. 
Roll one attack roll and compare the result to the AC of each 
target in the line. The ammunition ignores up to 10 of a target's 
resistance, and it can penetrate walls up to 1 foot thick with 
Hardness 10 or less. Each target that takes damage from this 
ammunition also takes 1d6 persistent bleed damage. 

If your attack roll result is a natural 20, you improve your 
degree of success only against the first target in the line, but 
you can still score a critical hit on other targets if your result 
exceeds their AC by 10 or more. If you have access to your bow's 
critical specialization effect, penetrating ammunition applies 
that effect only against a target in the last square of the line. 


SHINING AMMUNITION ITEM1 
| CONSUMABLE | evocation | LIGHT | MAGICAL | 
Price3gp | 


Ammunition any 

Shining ammunition gives off a faint glow. When shot, it sheds 
bright light in a 20-foot radius (and dim light to the next 20 feet) 
for 10 minutes. If it hits a target, it sticks, causing the target 
to shed light in the same radius. A creature can remove the 
ammunition with an Interact action, but the ammunition itself 
continues to glow for the rest of the duration or until destroyed. 


SLEEP ARROW ITEM 3 
mma 

Price 11 gp 

Ammunition arrow 

Activate *9 Interact 

Sleep arrows often have shafts of deep blue or black, and 
their fletching is exceptionally soft and downy. An activated 
sleep arrow deals no damage, but a living creature hit by it is 
subject to the effects of a sleep spell (DC 17). 

Craft Requirements Supply one casting of sleep. 


SPELLSTRIKE AMMUNITION 

| covsuanie | macica | transmutation | 
Ammunition any 

Activate *99 Cast a Spell 

Mystic patterns create a magic reservoir within this 
ammunition. You activate spellstrike ammunition by Casting 
a Spell into the ammunition. The spell must be of a spell level 


ITEM 3+ 


Type |; Level 3; Price 12 gp; Maximum Spell Level ist 

Type II; Level 5; Price 30 gp; Maximum Spell Level 2nd 

Type III; Level 7; Price 70 gp; Maximum Spell Level 3rd 

Type IV; Level 9; Price 150 gp; Maximum Spell Level 4th 
Type V; Level 11; Price 300 gp; Maximum Spell Level 5th 
Type VI; Level 13; Price 600 gp; Maximum Spell Level 6th 
Type VII; Level 15; Price 1,300 gp; Maximum Spell Level 7th 
Type VIII; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp; Maximum Spell Level 8th 
Type IX; Level 19; Price 8,000 gp; Maximum Spell Level 9th 


STONE BULLET ITEM 15 
ETTUHETUETNNU 
Price 1,300 gp 


Ammunition sling bullet 

Activate *9 Interact 

This sling bullet looks like a petrified serpent's eye. A creature 
hit by an activated stone bullet is subject to the effects of a 
6th-level flesh to stone spell (DC 34). 

Craft Requirements Supply one casting of flesh to stone. 


STORM ARROW ITEM9 

EXETTHETCTAETCTIETTN 

Price 130 gp 

Ammunition arrow 

Activate *9 Interact 

The head of this arrow is made from gleaming copper. 

When an activated storm arrow hits a target, it is buffeted 

by raging winds and struck by a bolt of lightning that deals 

3d12 electricity damage and the target must attempt a DC 25 

Reflex saving throw. If this arrow is shot from a weapon with 

a shock property rune, the save DC increases to 27, though 

the attack doesn't benefit from the shock property rune itself. 

Critical Success The foe is unaffected. 

Success The foe takes half damage and isn't affected by the wind. 

Failure The foe takes full damage and is buffeted by winds for 
1 round, taking a -2 circumstance penalty to ranged attack 
rolls and a -10-foot circumstance penalty to its fly Speed. 

Critical Failure As failure, but the foe takes double damage. 


VINE ARROW ITEM3 
Price 10 gp 

Ammunition arrow 

Activate *9 command 


Leafy stalks protrude from the shaft of this rustic arrow. When 
an activated vine arrow hits a target, the arrow’s shaft splits 
and grows, wrapping the target in vines. The target takes a 
-10-foot circumstance penalty to its Speeds for 2d4 rounds, or 
until it Escapes against a DC of 19. On a critical hit, the target 
is also immobilized until it Escapes. 


VIPER ARROW ITEM 4 


This oil fills a weapon with cosmic power of an alignment. Each 
aligned oil is crafted to one alignment: chaos, evil, good, or law 
(such as a good-aligned oil). A weapon anointed with this oil 
gains the effects of the property rune matching its alignment: 
anarchic (chaos), axiomatic (law), holy (good), or unholy (evil). 
This lasts for 1 minute. 


NECTAR OF PURIFICATION ITEM 1 


| CONJURATION 
Price 17 gp 
Ammunition arrow 

Activate > command 


| coNsuMABLE | 


Í CONSUMABLE | | 
Price 3 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate 9 Interact 


The shaft of this arrow is covered in fine green scales, and its 
iron head comes to a pair of points almost like fangs. After an 
activated viper arrow hits a target, the arrow transforms into 
a viper (Pathfinder Bestiary 302). The target is affected by the 
viper's poison, as if it had been bitten. The viper then lands in 
an open space adjacent to the target. 

The viper has the summoned trait and acts at the end of 
your turn, even though you didn't use the Sustain a Spell 
action. It is under the GM's control, but it generally attacks the 
creature the arrow struck. The viper vanishes after 1 minute 
or when slain. 


A shimmering liquid, nectar of purification is often stored 
in bottles similar to those used for vinegar. This oil casts a 
1st-level purify food and drink spell over any food or drink onto 
which it's poured. The nectar evaporates as it takes effect, 
leaving the taste and texture of the food or drink unaltered. 


OBFUSCATION OIL ITEM 15 


CONSUMABLE | wwusion | wacicaL | oi 
Price 1,200 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


Craft Requirements Supply one casting of summon animal. 


OILS 


Oils are magical gels, ointments, pastes, or salves that 
are typically applied to an object and are used up in the 
process. They have the oil trait. Applying an oil usually 
takes two hands: one to hold the jar containing the oil, 
and another to extract the oil and apply it. You can 
only apply an oil to an item or creature within your 
reach. Because the process is so thorough, it is usually 
impossible to apply an oil to an unwilling target or an 
item in the possession of an unwilling target unless that 
target is paralyzed, petrified, or unconscious. 


ANTIMAGIC OIL 

| RARE | ABJURATION | CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL | OIL | 
Price 13,000 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

This oil contains energy that repels nearly all types of magic. 
When you apply this oil to armor, the creature wearing the 
armor becomes immune to all spells, effects of magic items 
(the wearer's and those of others), and effects with the magical 
trait for 1 minute. The oil affects neither the magic of the armor 
nor the fundamental runes of weapons attacking the wearer. 
Magical effects from a source of 20th level or higher, such as a 
deity, still function on the armor's wearer. 


ITEM 20 


You can spread this blue-gray gel on a single item with a Bulk 
of 3 or less to ward it against magical detection. It becomes 
immune to divination magic of 8th level or lower (such as 
locate). This oil is permanent, but it can be removed with acid. 
Removing the oil in this way usually takes 1 minute for objects 
with Bulk of 1 or less, or a number of minutes equal to the 
item's Bulk. 


ITEM 12 


Price 330 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate +> Interact 

You can rub this bronze-colored oil onto a melee weapon to 
grant it the benefits of the dancing rune (page 583). Once 
you fail a flat check for the weapon, causing it to fall, this 
effect ends. 


OIL OF KEEN EDGES 


UNCOMMON | CONSUMABLE 
Price 250 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *> Interact 
When this silvery salve is applied to a melee weapon that 
deals piercing or slashing damage, the weapon grows sharper 
and more dangerous for 1 minute, granting it the benefits of 
the keen rune. 


ITEM 11 


| macicat | on f TRANsMUTATION | 


ALIGNED OIL ITEMS OILOF MENDING ITEM 3 
| consumase | vivine | evocation | on | Í CONSUMABLE | macicaL | oi | TRANSMUTATION 
Price 140 gp Price 9 gp 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate 1 minute (Interact) 


EQUIPMENT 


‘SPELLS 


HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 
GAME 
MASTERING 
- 98. 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


we’ 


APPEND: 
ja 


JATHFINDE ‘ORE RULEBOOK 3 


A vial of oil of mending appears to have countless translucent 
threads swirling within. Applying this oil to an item casts a 
2nd-level mending spell to repair the item. 


OIL OF POTENCY ITEM 2 
| CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL | OIL | TRANSMUTATION 
Price 7 gp 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

When you apply this thick, viscous oil to a weapon or suit of 
armor, that item immediately becomes magically potent. If the 
item is a weapon, it temporarily becomes a +1 striking weapon, 
or, if it's armor, it temporarily becomes +1 resilient armor. This 
lasts for 1 minute. 


Activate +> Interact 

This greenish, persistent grease can be applied to armor to 
make it extremely slippery for 8 hours, granting the wearer a 
+2 item bonus to Acrobatics checks to Escape or to Squeeze. 


POTIONS 


A potion is a magical liquid that is activated when you 


drink it, which uses it up. Potions have the potion trait. 
You can activate a potion with an Interact action as you 
drink it or feed it to another creature. You can feed a 
potion only to a creature that is within reach and willing 
or otherwise so helpless that it can’t resist. You usually 
need only one hand to consume a potion or feed it to 
another creature. 


OIL OF REPULSION ITEM11 — BARKSKIN POTION ITEM 4 
f nowearon | consumen T macica [on ] [ sono [ casn T onov. [ona 
Price 175 gp Price 15 gp 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate 9 Interact 


This oil contains magnetically charged iron filings repelled into 
opposite ends of the vial. For 1 minute after you apply this oil 
to armor, any creature that hits you with a melee Strike must 
attempt a DC 28 Fortitude save with the following effects. 
Success The creature is unaffected. 

Failure The creature is pushed up to 10 feet away from you 

(the GM determines the direction). 
Critical Failure As failure, and the creature is also knocked prone. 


OIL OF WEIGHTLESSNESS ITEM 2+ 
| CONSUMABLE f MAGICAL f oiL | TRANSMUTATION | 


Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


You can spread this shimmering oil on an item of 1 Bulk or less 
to make it feel weightless. It has negligible Bulk for 1 hour. 


Type oil of weightlessness; Level 2; Price 6 gp 


Type greater oil of weightlessness; Level 6; Price 36 gp 
This oil can affect an item of 2 Bulk or less and lasts 8 hours. 


SALVE OF ANTIPARALYSIS ITEM 6+ 


mmmn 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


After you drink this bitter draft, your skin thickens like 
bark. You gain the effects of a 2nd-level barkskin spell for 
10 minutes. 


DRAGON'S BREATH POTION 
EXTTHETTCNRETTSNETI 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

This viscous liquid contains blood from a certain type of 
dragon. For 1 hour after you imbibe the concoction, you can 
unleash a breath weapon used by that type of dragon. The 
potency of the breath depends on the potion's type, based 
on the age of the dragon whose blood was used to make the 
potion. This potion has the trait matching the damage type of 
the breath weapon. 

Exhaling dragon breath uses a single action. The damage 
type and the area of the dragon breath depend on the type 
of dragon blood in the potion, as shown in the table below. 
Regardless of the dragon type, the breath weapon deals 4d6 
damage, and each creature in the area must attempt a DC 23 
basic save of a type determined by the type of the dragon. 
After you use the breath weapon, you can't do so again for 
1d4 rounds. 


ITEM 7+ 


Applying this filmy salve to a creature helps it overcome 
magical paralysis. The creature recovers as if it were the 
target of a 3rd-level remove paralysis spell. 


Type young; Level 7; Price 70 gp 
Type adult; Level 12; Price 400 gp 
The damage is 6d6 and the save DC is 29. 


Type salve of antiparalysis; Level 6; Price 40 gp 


Type greater salve of antiparalysis; Level 12; Price 325 gp 

A greater salve of antiparalysis can potentially remove 
petrification. The creature recovers as if it were the target 
of both a 6th-level remove paralysis spell and a stone to 
flesh spell. 


SALVE OF SLIPPERINESS ITEM 5 


CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL | OIL | TRANSMUTATION | 


Price 25 gp Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 


Type wyrm; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp 
The damage is 10d6 and the save DC is 37. 


Dragon Type Breath Weapon (Save) 


Black or copper 30-foot line of acid (Reflex) 
Blue or bronze 30-foot line of electricity (Reflex) 


Brass 30-foot line of fire (Reflex) 
Green 15-foot cone of poison (Fortitude) 
Gold or red 15-foot cone of fire (Reflex) 


Silver or white 15-foot cone of cold (Reflex) 


HEALING POTION _ITEM 1+ 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 

A healing potion is a vial of a ruby-red liquid that imparts a 
tingling sensation as the drinker's wounds heal rapidly. When 
you drink a healing potion, you regain the listed number of 
Hit Points. 

Type minor; Level 1; Price 4 gp 

The potion restores 1d8 Hit Points. 
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 12 gp 

The potion restores 2d8+5 Hit Points. 
Type moderate; Level 6; Price 50 gp 
The potion restores 3d8+10 Hit Points. 
Type greater; Level 12; Price 400 gp 
The potion restores 6d8+20 Hit Points. 
Type major; Level 18; Price 5,000 gp 
The potion restores 8d8+30 Hit Points. 


INVISIBILITY POTION ITEM 4 


[UNCOMMON | CONSUMABLE | ILLUSION | MAGICAL | 


Price 20 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

An invisibility potion is colorless and oddly lightweight. Upon 
drinking it, you gain the effects of a 2nd-level invisibility spell. 


PANACEA ITEM 13 
UNCOMMON | CONSUMABLE | | 

Price 450 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 


HEALING 


MAGICAL | NECROMANCY | 


ES 


POTION OF QUICKNESS 


CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL 


Price90gp — — 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate 9 Interact 


Drinking this silver potion grants you the effects of haste for 
1 minute. 


POTION OF RESISTANCE 


| ABJURATION | CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

_ Activate 9 Interact 

b Drinking this thick, fortifying potion grants resistance 
. against a single damage type for 1 hour. Each potion 

of resistance is created to defend against acid, cold, 

electricity, fire, or sonic damage (and is called a 

lesser potion of fire resistance or the like). 

Type lesser; Level 6; Price 45 gp 

You gain resistance 5 to the appropriate energy type. 

Type moderate; Level 10; Price 180 gp 

You gain resistance 10 to the appropriate energy type. 

Type greater; Level 14; Price 850 gp 

You gain resistance 15 to the appropriate energy type. 


POTION OF SWIMMING ITEM 6+ 


| consumaste | Macicat | Potion 


ITEM 6+ 


| | TRANSMUTATION | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate «> Interact 


This potion tastes like salt water, and sandy grit settles to the 
bottom of its container. When you drink it, you gain a swim 
Speed equal to your land Speed for 10 minutes. 

Type potion of swimming; Level 6; Price 50 gp 


This potion appears to shift colors, and no two observers 
describe it in the same way. When consumed, it attempts to 
counteract all curses and diseases affecting you, as well as 
the blinded and deafened conditions from spells affecting you. 
The potion has a counteract level of 7 and a *20 modifier for 
the roll. 


POTION OF FLYING ITEM 8+ 


Tsar 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate 9 Interact 


Upon drinking this effervescent concoction, you gain a fly 
Speed of 40 feet for 1 minute. 

Type potion of flying; Level 8; Price 100 gp 

Type greater potion of flying; Level 15; Price 1,000 gp 

The fly Speed lasts for 1 hour. 


POTION OF LEAPING - 


ITEM 5 


Price 21 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 


For 1 minute after you drink this fizzy potion, whenever you 
Leap, you gain the effect of the 1st-level jump spell. 


Type greater potion of swimming; Level 11; Price 250 gp 
The swim Speed lasts for 1 hour. 


POTION OF TONGUES 

| uncommon | consumasue | Divination 
Price 320 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *9 Interact 

This sour potion enlivens your tongue with unusual flavors and 
uncommon eloquence, allowing you to speak and understand 
all languages for 4 hours after you drink it. This doesnt allow 
you to read these languages in their written form. 


ITEM 12 


MAGICAL | 


POTION | 


POTION OF UNDETECTABILITY 
Price 4,400 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate ‘> Interact 

Drinking this dull-black liquid makes you undetectable to 
divinations. This grants the same effects as mind blank, but 
without the bonus against mental effects. You also gain the 
effects of a 4th-level invisibility spell, which protects against 
see invisibility spells of 8th level and lower and has a DC of 36 
against true seeing. The potion's effects last for 10 minutes. 


ITEM 18 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 
LAE 


/ THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


CRAFTING 


| & TREASURE 


sind niim (QUIE ee s T = ^ 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 4 
pu a a ai i — e "a eel 


POTION OF WATER BREATHING 
DS Ee f porion | transmutation f 
Price 11 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

This filmy, gray potion smells of an old fish midden and tastes 
even worse. After drinking this potion, you gain the effects of 
a 2nd-level water breathing spell for 1 hour. 


SHRINKING POTION 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate 9 Interact; Onset 1 minute 

This fungus-flavored potion conveys the effects of the shrink 
spell to make you and all your gear smaller. After the onset, 
you remain small for 10 minutes. 

Type shrinking potion; Level 4; Price 15 gp 

Type greater shrinking potion; Level 8; Price 90 gp 

This potion has no onset, lasts for 1 hour, and grants the 
effects of a 4th-level shrink spell. In addition, you gain a +2 
item bonus to Stealth checks while shrunken. 


ITEM 4+ 


SERUM OF SEX SHIFT ITEM7 
Price 60 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Upon drinking this potion, your biology instantly transforms to 
take on a set of sexual characteristics of your choice, changing 
your appearance and physiology accordingly. You have mild 
control over the details of this change, but you retain a strong 
"family resemblance" to your former appearance. 

The magic functions instantaneously and cant be 
counteracted. Your new anatomy is as healthy and functional 
as your previous body's, potentially allowing you to procreate 
(depending on your ancestry's biology). Drinking a subsequent 
serum of sex shift allows you to either revert back to your 
original form or adopt other sexual characteristics, as you 
choose. The elixir has no effect if you are pregnant or from 
an ancestry with no sexual differentiation. Most ancestries 
have a wide spectrum of sexual differentiation, some common, 
others more rare. 


TRUESIGHT POTION 


| consumasue | piviuiion 
Price 1,500 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *9 Interact 

Upon drinking this clear, refreshing potion, you can see things 
as they actually are. You gain the benefits of a 7th-level true 


seeing spell that has a counteract modifier of +25. 


TRUTH POTION ITEM6 
mimma 


Price 46 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 


ITEM 16 


Activate +> Interact 

For 10 minutes after drinking this astringent potion, you 

cant intentionally lie and may be compelled to tell the truth. 

Upon drinking the potion, attempt a DC 19 Will save. You can 

voluntarily fail or critically fail. 

Success The potion does not affect you. 

Failure When you speak, you must tell the truth. 

Critical Failure As failure, and when someone asks you a 
question, you must attempt another DC 19 Will saving 
throw. If you fail this saving throw, you must answer the 
question truthfully if you are able to do so; if you succeed, 
you are temporarily immune to further attempts to ask the 
same question within the potion's duration. 


SCROLLS 


A scroll contains a single spell that you can cast without 


having to expend a spell slot. A scroll can be Crafted to 
contain nearly any spell, so the types of scrolls available 
are limited only by the number of spells in the game. The 
exceptions are cantrips, focus spells, and rituals, none of 
which can be put on scrolls. The spell on a scroll can 
be cast only once, and the scroll is destroyed as part of 
the casting. The spell on the scroll is cast at a particular 
spell level, as determined by the scroll. For instance, a 
scroll of magic missile (1st level) can be used to cast the 
1st-level version of magic missile, but not a magic missile 
heightened to 2nd level. If no level is listed, the scroll can 
be used to cast the spell at its lowest level. 

If you find a scroll, you can try to figure out what spell 
it contains. If the spell is a common spell from your spell 
list or a spell you know, you can spend a single Recall 
Knowledge action and automatically succeed at identifying 
the scroll’s spell. If it’s not, you must use Identify Magic 
(page 238) to learn what spell the scroll holds. 


CASTING A SPELL FROM A SCROLL 

Casting a Spell from a scroll requires holding the scroll 
in one hand and activating it with a Cast a Spell activity 
using the normal number of actions for that spell. 

To Cast a Spell from a scroll, the spell must appear on 
your spell list. Because you’re the one Casting the Spell, 
use your spell attack roll and spell DC. The spell also 
gains the appropriate trait for your tradition (arcane, 
divine, occult, or primal). 

Any physical material components and costs are 
provided when a scroll is created, so you don’t need to 
provide them when Casting a Spell from a scroll. You 
must replace any required material component for that 
spell with a somatic component. If the spell requires a 
focus, you must have that focus to Cast the Spell from 
a scroll. 


Scrot SrarisTICS 

All scrolls have the same base statistics unless noted 
otherwise. A scroll has light Bulk, and it must be held in 
one hand to be activated. 


Varying STATISTICS 
Table 11-3 indicates the item level and Price of a 
scroll, both of which are based on the level of the spell 
contained on the scroll. Any costs to Cast the Spell are 
added to the scroll’s Price when the scroll is crafted, so 
a scroll containing a spell with a Cost entry will have a 
higher Price than what appears on the table. The scroll’s 
rarity matches the spell’s rarity. 

The traits for a scroll vary based on the spell it contains. 
A scroll always has the consumable, magical, and scroll 
traits, plus the traits of the spell stored on it. 


TABLE 11-3: SCROLL STATISTICS 


Spell Level Item Level Scroll Price 

1 1 4 gp 

2 3 12 gp 
3 5 30 gp 
4 7 70 gp 
3) 9 150 gp 
6 1i 300 gp 
7 13 600 gp 
8 15 1,300 gp 
9 17 3,000 gp 
10 19 8,000 gp 


CRAFTING A SCROLL 
The process to Craft a scroll is much like that to Craft any other 
magic item. When you begin the crafting process, choose a 
spell to put into the scroll. You have 
to either Cast that Spell during 
the crafting process, or someone 
else must do so in your presence. 
Casting that Spell doesn’t produce 
its normal effects; instead, the magic is 
trapped inside the scroll. The casting must 
come from a spellcaster expending a spell 
slot. You can’t Craft a scroll from a spell 
produced from another magic item, for 
example. The caster has to provide any 
cost of the spell. You need to learn only a 
single 1st-level formula to Craft scrolls. 
Like other consumables, scrolls can be crafted 
in batches of four. All scrolls of one batch must 
contain the same spell at the same level, and you 
must provide one casting for each scroll crafted. 


SAMPLE SCROLLS 
A wide variety of spells can appear on scrolls. The 
following specific scrolls are just examples. 


SCROLL OF GLITTERDUST 

| CONSUMABLE | Evocation | macica | SCROLL 
Price 12 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *99 Cast a Spell 


ITEM 3 


This scroll can be used to cast glitterdust as a 2nd-level spell. 


Craft Requirements Supply one casting of glitterdust. 


SCROLL OF ILLUSORY DISGUISE 


ITEM 1 


| CONSUMABLE | ILLUSION | MAGICAL | SCROLL 
Price 3 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *99 Cast a Spell 


This scroll can cast illusory disguise as a 1st-level spell. 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of illusory disguise. 


TALISMANS 


An item with the talisman trait is a magical charm, gem, 


stone, or other small object affixed to armor, a shield, or 
a weapon (called the affixed item). Each talisman holds a 
sliver of combat knowledge or magical energy that can be 
unleashed for a momentary boost of power or enhanced 
ability. Many talismans can be activated as a free action 
when you use a particular action or activity. A talisman is 
a consumable item and has the talisman trait. 

You must be wielding or wearing an item to activate a 
talisman attached to it. Once activated, a talisman burns 
out permanently, usually crumbling into a fine dust. 


AFFIXING A TALISMAN 

Each talisman’s stat block indicates the type of item it 

can be affixed to. Affixing or removing requires using 

the Affix a Talisman activity. A single talisman can be 

affixed to only one item at a time, and an 
item can have only one talisman affixed to 
it at a time without suppressing them all. 


AFFIX A TALISMAN 

| EXPLORATION || MANIPULATE | 

Requirements You must use a repair kit (page 291). 

You spend 10 minutes affixing a talisman to an 

item, placing the item on a stable surface and 

using the repair kit with both hands. You can 
also use this activity to remove a talisman. 
Attaching more than one talisman to an 
item deactivates all the talismans. They 
must be removed and re-affixed before they 

can be used again. 


TALISMANS 
These are but a few of the talismans available. 


BLOODSEEKER BEAK 


ITEM 4 


| CONSUMABLE Ee | necromancy | Ee 
Price 20 gp 
Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You hit a flat-footed creature 

with the affixed weapon. 

This long, hollow proboscis is harvested from the notorious 
bloodseeker beast and drips a trickle of blood. When you 
activate the beak, you deal an extra 1d4 precision damage 


EQUIPMENT 
m 

SPELLS 
t 


a 
. THE AGE DF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 
-GAME 

-MASTERING 

EN. 

CRAFTING 

& TREASURE 


CORE RULEBOOK 42 
— I m ae ell 


on your damage roll. If you deal sneak attack damage to the 
creature, you also deal 1d4 persistent bleed damage. 


clasp or chain. When you activate the scale, for 1 minute you 
gain a swim Speed equal to half your land Speed. 


BRONZE BULL PENDANT ITEM2 EFFERVESCENT AMPOULE ITEM 2 
f consumate [evoomon [ vasica. [usw] ENHIEMHETTZNZETTU 
Price 7 gp Price 7 gp 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate ® envision; Trigger You attempt an Athletics check 
to Shove, but you haven't rolled yet; Requirements You are 
trained in Athletics. 

This pendant is forged from grainy steel and depicts a snorting 

bull’s face. The pendant must be attached to the chest area or 

on a shoulder guard. When you activate the pendant, you gain 

a *2 status bonus to the Athletics check to Shove, and if you 

roll a critical failure on the check, you get a failure instead. 


CRYING ANGEL PENDANT ITEM2 
[consunnoue J ore [ necromancy [risa 
Price 7 gp 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You critically fail to Administer 
First Aid; Requirements You are trained in Medicine. 

When you activate this alabaster pendant, your critical failure 

becomes a normal failure instead. 


DAZING COIL ITEM 14 
Price 900 gp 


Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You deal damage to a flat-footed 
creature with the affixed weapon. 

This knot of copper wire reshapes itself in a new pattern every 

time its affixed weapon deals damage. When you activate the 

coil, the damaged creature must succeed at a DC 31 Will save or 

be stunned 1. If it critically fails, it instead becomes stunned 2. 


DISPELLING SLIVER ITEM 17 
f resueanon | consowane | macica | ras ] 
Price 2,400 gp 
Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 
Activate © envision; Trigger Your Strike damages a target; 
Requirements You're a master with the affixed weapon. 
Made from a treated sliver of cold iron, this talisman allows you 
to counteract magical effects. When you activate the dispelling 
sliver, it attempts to counteract a single spell active on the 
target (counteract modifier +29), with the effects of an 8th-level 
dispel magic spell. 
If you activate the talisman on a successful Dispelling Slice, 
the talisman attempts to counteract all spells active on the target. 


DRAGON TURTLE SCALE ITEM 4 
[oonsumasue [wc [summon | Tash 
Price 13 gp 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 
Activate *® envision; Requirements You're an expert in Athletics. 
This shimmering green scale is usually attached to a golden 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate *9 Interact; Requirements You're an expert in Acrobatics. 
Light spring water fizzes and bubbles within this small glass 
globe, spilling onto the affixed armor when activated. Until the 
end of your turn, the armor lets you move across water and 
other liquids as if they were solid ground. If you Stride or Step 
over a weight-sensitive pressure plate, you don't cause the plate 
to depress, which prevents you from triggering any device or 
hazard attached to the pressure plate. When the ampoule’s 
effect ends, you sink, fall, break through flimsy ground, or land 
on pressure plates as normal for your current location. 


EMERALD GRASSHOPPER ITEM 5 
EETHIMMESENZNETTU 
Price 30 gp 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 
Activate © envision; Trigger You attempt a High Jump but 
havent rolled yet; Requirements You are an expert in Athletics. 
This metal grasshopper studded with emeralds is usually 
clasped to the legs of a suit of armor. When you activate it, 
if you succeed at the Athletics check, you Leap up to 50 feet 
vertically and up to 10 feet horizontally. If you critically succeed, 
you can Leap up to 75 feet vertically and 20 feet horizontally. If 
you don't end your jump on solid ground, you flutter in the air 
until the end of your turn, then fall harmlessly at a rate of 60 
feet per round until you reach the ground. 


EVE OF APPREHENSION ITEM 12 
ENXTHETTUETHETZI 
Price 400 gp 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate €^ envision; Trigger You are about to roll Perception 
for initiative but haven't rolled yet; Requirements You are a 
master in Perception. 

This round piece of cymophanes silky inclusion makes it look 

like a cat's eye. While affixed, it makes you jittery. When you 

activate it, roll Perception twice and use the higher result. 


FADEBAND . ITEM 12 
[some | muusion | waica | Tsun | 
Price 320 gp 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate € envision; Trigger An attack misses you; Requirements 
You are a master in Stealth. 

This thin, silvery wire wraps around your armor. When you 

activate the band, it casts a 2nd-level invisibility spell on you. 


FEAR GEM 
| CONSUMABLE | ENCHANTMENT | FEAR | MacicaL | 


Price 20 gp 


Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 
Activate *99 Intimidating Strike 
Dark smoke seems to writhe within this obsidian gem. When 
you activate the gem, you make an Intimidating Strike, as the 
fighter feat (page 146). 

If you have the Intimidating Strike feat, increase the 
frightened condition value from this Intimidating Strike to 
frightened 2, or frightened 3 on a critical hit. 


FEATHER STEP STONE 

Price 8 gp 

Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You Stride or Step; Requirements 
You are an expert in Acrobatics. 

This stone, usually shaped as a cabochon, is a small chunk of 

amber with a bit of feather or a flying insect caught within it. 

When you activate the stone, you ignore the effects of any 

difficult terrain and greater difficult terrain you move through 

until the end of your turn. 


FLAME NAVETTE 

| ABJURATION | CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL | TALISMAN | 
Price 1,800 gp 

Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate 9 envision; Requirements You're an expert in Will saves. 
This piece of bronzite is shaped like an oval with points at both 
ends. It has a carved flame at its center and is traditionally 
worn over the heart. You can activate only one flame navette 
per day. When you activate the navette, you gain the benefit 
of the fighters Determination class feat, with a counteract 
modifier of +22. If you have the Determination feat, you can 
use your own modifier if it’s better. 


GALLOWS TOOTH 


ITEM 3 


ITEM 16 


ITEM 8 


CONSUMABLE | ‘DIVINATION | MAGICAL | TALISMAN | 
Price 100 gp 
Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 

Activate € Interact; Trigger You attack an 
adjacent creature and haven't rolled your 
attack roll; Requirements You're a master 
in Intimidation. 

This grisly molar hangs from a cord 

threaded through a tiny hole just above 

its dried, exposed root. When you 
activate this talisman, the creature 
youre attacking becomes flat-footed 
until the end of the current turn. 


GHOST DUST 


ITEM 16 


| uuusion f occut | TALISMAN | 

Price 1,800 gp 

Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate ® envision; Trigger You use an action with the move 
trait; Requirements You are legendary in Stealth. 


This small vial is filled with a grayish-green dust rendered from 


CRAFTING & TREASURE 
Fi er a a 


dried ectoplasm. When you activate the dust, it casts a 4th-level 
invisibility spell on you. This comes into effect before you move 
during the triggering action. 


GRIM TROPHY 


Í CONSUMABLE | ENCHANTMENT | MAGICAL 

Price 55 gp 

Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You attempt an Intimidation 
check to Coerce or Demoralize, but you haven't rolled yet; 
Requirements You are an expert in Intimidation. 

This talisman comes in many forms, most often a severed 

piece of a humanoid creature displayed in some gruesome 

manner. When you activate the trophy, select two targets and 


compare your Intimidation check result to both of their DCs. 


| 


TALISMAN 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 


HUNTER'S BANE ITEM2 | . 
CONSUMABLE | DIVINATION | MAGICAL | TALISMAN | ib eee NF 
Price 6 gp pean ENS 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 
Activate ® envision; Trigger An undetected enemy hits you PLAYING THE 
with an attack; Requirements You are trained in Survival. GAME 
This talisman is a ring of dried, interwoven leaves. When you 
activate the hunter’s bane, you sense the exact location of the 
attacker, making it hidden from you instead of undetected. If 
the attacker is behind lead, the hunter's bane fails and is wasted. 


GAME 
— MASTERING 


+ 


9.2. 


CRAFTING 


IRON CUBE ITEM6 | eee 
CONSUMABLE | EVOCATION | MAGICAL | TALISMAN | — 


Price 50 gp 
Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 
Activate 99 Knockdown; Requirements You are an expert 
with the affixed weapon. 

This cube of blackened iron is affixed to a weapon with an iron 
chain. When you activate the cube, you use Knockdown, as the 
fighter feat (page 146). 

If you have the Knockdown feat, ignore its normal 
size restrictions. 


IRON CUDGEL ITEM 14 
| CONSUMABLE | EVOCATION | MAGICAL | TALISMAN | 


Price 900 gp 
Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 
Activate *9 Brutal Finish; Requirements 
You are a master with the affixed weapon. 
This miniature club is typically affixed to a 
weapon by an iron chain. When you activate the 
cudgel, you use Brutal Finish, as the fighter feat (page 
151). You must meet the normal requirements, including 
those of the press trait. 
If you have the Brutal Finish feat, add two additional 
weapon damage dice on a success or a failure. 


i 


IRON EQUALIZER ITEM 12 
CONSUMABLE | Evocation | MAGICAL | TALISMAN | 
Price 400 gp 


Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 

Activate ‘} Certain Strike; Requirements You are a master 
with the affixed weapon. 

This small iron band has a shifting weight that helps equalize 

the affixed weapon's balance. When you activate it, you use 

Certain Strike, as the fighter feat (page 150). You must meet 

the normal requirements, including those of the press trait. 
If you have the Certain Strike feat, the failure effect 

increases to deal the weapon's normal damage. 


IRON MEDALLION 
ABJURATION CONSUMABLE | MAGI MAGICAL | TALISMAN 

Price 175 gp 

Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You attempt a 
Will save against a fear effect but havent 
rolled yet; Requirements You have master 
proficiency in Will saves or have the bravery 
class feature. 

This small medallion is shaped like a shield. 

When you activate it, you gain a +2 status bonus 

to saves against fear for 1 minute. On the triggering 

save, if the outcome of your roll is a failure, you get 

a success instead or if the outcome is a critical failure, 

you get a failure instead. 


JADE BAUBLE 


| ENCHANTMENT | MAGICAL | MENTAL | TALISMAN | 


Price 100 gp 

Usage affixed to a melee weapon; Bulk — 
Activate * command; Requirements You are a 

master with the affixed weapon. 

This bit of jade is usually carved in the shape of 
a duelist, or sometimes a multi-armed creature. 
When you activate the bauble, it magically draws the 
attention of foes. Until the start of your next turn, 
enemies within the reach of the weapon the talisman 
is affixed to are flat-footed. 


JADE CAT 


ITEM 10 


ITEM 8 


ITEM 2 


ABJURATION | CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL | TALISMAN | 
Price 6 gp 
Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 
Activate © command; Trigger You fall or attempt 
an Acrobatics check to Balance; Requirements 
You are trained in Acrobatics. 


A thumb-sized feline carved of rare stone, the jade cat 

is typically worn as a pendant upon a suit of armor. For 1 
minute after you activate the cat, you treat all falls as 20 feet 
shorter, you are not flat-footed when you Balance, and narrow 
surfaces and uneven ground are not difficult terrain for you. 


MENDING LATTICE ITEM 13 


UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL | TALISMAN 
Price 525 gp 
Usage affixed to a shield or weapon; Bulk — 


Activate © command; Trigger The affixed item would take 
damage; Requirements You are a master in Crafting. 

This lattice of reinforced iron is shaped into a perfect 

octagon. When you activate it, it negates the damage and 

instantly and completely repairs the affixed item. 


MESMERIZING OPAL ITEM 2 
Es | enchantment | macicar f TaLisman | 
Price upto EE 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You attempt a Deception check 
to Feint, but you haven't rolled yet. 

This silver-bound opal pendant is afire with iridescence. 

When you activate it, if the outcome of your 
triggering Deception check is a critical failure, 
you get a failure instead (or if the outcome is a 
success, you get a critical success instead). 


MONKEY PIN. ITEM 2 


Price6gp 

Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate *® Climb; Requirements You are trained in 

Athletics. 

This small brass pin is in the shape of a monkey climbing 
a tree. When you activate this talisman, use a Climb action. 

If you succeed, you move your full Speed during the Climb. If 

you roll a critical failure, you get a failure instead. 


MUMMIFIED BAT ITEM 10 
| CONSUMABLE | DIVINATION | MAGICAL | TALISMAN | 
Price 175 gp 

Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 

Activate *9 command; Requirements You are a master 
in Perception. 

This talisman is the magically treated corpse of a tiny 
bat bound in papyrus. When you activate the bat, 
the affixed weapon detects vibrations around you 
and guides your perception. You gain the benefits 
of the fighter Blind-Fight class feat (page 149) for 
1 minute. 

If you have the Blind-Fight feat, you gain 
imprecise echolocation with a range of 30 feet 
for 1 minute. This makes creatures that would 

be undetected by you because you can't see them 
hidden instead. 


MURDERER'S KNOT 


| acicat | TALISMAN | 


ITEM 7 


Price 66 gp 

Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 

Activate © command; Trigger You damage a flat-footed creature 
with a Strike using the affixed weapon; Requirements You 
are an expert with the affixed weapon. 


This black strand of leather is tied to look like a peace knot 
when the weapon is worn, but it doesnt hamper drawing 


the weapon. When you activate the knot, the creature you 
damaged takes 1d6 persistent bleed damage. 

If you have the Twist the Knife feat, the talisman instead deals 
persistent bleed damage equal to your sneak attack damage. 


ONYX PANTHER ITEM 2 
-TRANSMUTATION | 
Price 7 gp 

Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 
Activate © envision; Trigger You use a Sneak action; 

Requirements You are trained in Stealth. 

This small stone is a stylized panther shape. When you activate 
it, you can move your full Speed (instead of half) during the 
triggering Sneak and any other time you Sneak this turn. 


OWLBEAR CLAW ITEM 1 


TALISMAN | 


| TALISMAN 


Price 3 gp 

Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You critically succeed at an 
attack roll with the affixed weapon. 

This claw set in an iron clasp and chain isn’t always the claw of 

an owlbear. When you activate the claw, the triggering attack 

gains the weapons critical specialization effect. 


POTENCY CRYSTAL ITEM 1 
[consumase | evocanon | macica T masman | 
Price 4 gp 


Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 
Activate © envision; Trigger You make an attack with the 
affixed weapon, but you haven't rolled yet. 

This fluorite crystal glows with a strange phosphorescence. 
When you activate the crystal, the weapon becomes a +1 
striking weapon for the rest of the turn, gaining a +1 item 
bonus to the attack roll and increasing the damage on a hit to 
two weapon damage dice. 


SAVIOR SPIKE ITEM 2 
| ABJURATION | CONSUMABLE | FORCE | MAGICAL | TALISMAN | 
Price 7 gp 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 
Activate €? command; Trigger You attempt to Grab an Edge 
but haven't rolled; Requirements You're an expert in Reflex. 

This pyramid-shaped spike is attached to an armor's chest 
piece. When you activate the spike, it shoots a strand of 
force to help you gain purchase. If you roll a success on the 
triggering attempt, you get a critical success instead (if you 
roll a critical failure, you get a failure instead). 


SHARKTOOTHCHARM —— 


ITEM 5 


TALISMAN | 


Price 23 gp 

Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate €? command; Trigger You attempt to Escape 
using Acrobatics for your roll, but you havent rolled yet; 
Requirements You are an expert in Acrobatics. 


CRAFTING 


lie ue eee EE 


a a. 


This dried-seaweed bracelet is lined with charms shaped like 
small shark teeth. When you activate the bracelet, if you roll 
a success on the triggering check, you get a critical success 
instead (if you roll a critical failure, you get a failure instead). If 
you fail the Acrobatics check against a grabbing creature, the 
creature must either release you as a free action or take 2d8 
piercing damage as shark's teeth momentarily emerge from 
your skin. 


SNEAKY KEY ITEM 5 
Price 22 gp 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate *® Interact; Requirements You are an expert in Thievery. 
This small silver skeleton key can be pinned to armor or 
a sleeve. When you turn the key to activate it, for the next 
minute, if the outcome of any your attempts to Pick a Lock is 
a critical failure, you get a failure instead. 


SWIFT BLOCK CABOCHON ITEM7 


ABJURATION | CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL | TALISMAN f 


UNCOMMON | 
Price 70 gp 
Usage affixed to a shield; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You take damage from a physical 
attack while you don't have the affixed shield raised. 


This clear quartz cabochon attaches to the center of your 
shield. When you activate the cabochon, you use the Shield 
Block reaction even if you hadn't raised the affixed shield (and 
even if you don't normally have that reaction). 


TIGER MENUKI 

| CONSUMABLE | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | TALISMAN | 
Price 30 gp 

Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 

Activate ® envision; Trigger You Strike with the affixed weapon. 
This tiger formed of pewter snarls viciously from your 
weapons grip. When you activate the tiger, the affixed 
weapon gains the sweep trait for the triggering attack and all 
other attacks for 1 minute. 


ITEM 5 


VANISHING COIN ITEM 10 
CONSUMABLE | ILLUSION | macica | TALISMAN | 
Price 160 gp zm 


Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 

Activate © envision; Trigger You attempt a Stealth check for 
initiative, but you haven't rolled yet; Requirements You are 
a master in Stealth. 

This copper coin dangles from a leather strip strung through 

a hole drilled in the center. Until activated, the coin becomes 

invisible for a few seconds at random intervals every few 

minutes. When you activate the coin, it casts a 2nd-level 

invisibility spell on you, lasting until the end of your next turn. 


VIPER'S FANG 


CONSUMABLE | EVOCATION 
Price 850 gp 


ITEM 14 


MAGICAL | TALISMAN | 


& TREASURE 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 


ce ‘i 


|. THE AGE OF 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


| ” GRAFTING 
L seres 


um NDI: 


i 
5 
w P 


Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk — 

Activate D envision; Trigger A creature within your reach 
uses a manipulate or move action, makes a ranged attack, or 
leaves a square during a move action it's using; Requirements 
You are a master with the affixed weapon. 

When you activate this resin-strengthened viper skull, you 

make an Attack of Opportunity against the triggering creature. 
If you have Attack of Opportunity, you can activate the 

viper's fang as a free action. 


WOLF FANG ITEM 1 
[ roms [ rooms | | 
Price 4 gp j 
Usage affixed to armor; Bulk — 
Activate © envision; Trigger 

You successfully Trip a foe; 

Requirements You are trained in Athletics. 
This wolf canine is bound in a strip of leather and 
tied to a buckle or strap of a suit of armor. When you 
activate the fang, you deal bludgeoning damage equal to 
your Strength modifier to the target of your Trip. If your 
Trip would already deal physical damage that doesn't 
include an ability modifier, add your Strength modifier to 
that damage. 


OTHER CONSUMABLES 


Though many consumables are grouped into 


specific categories, such as potions and talismans, some 
consumables don’t fit into those categories. 


CANDLE OF TRUTH ITEM 8 


3rd level or lower are revealed as such, although this does 
not end their effect. 


DUST OF DISAPPEARANCE 
| UNCOMMON | CONSUMABLE | ILLUSION 
Price 135gp ——— 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — 
Activate *9 Interact 
This powder shimmers like a thousand tiny motes of light. 
Activating the dust by sprinkling it on yourself or a creature 
within reach casts a 4th-level invisibility spell with a 
duration of 1 minute on that creature. This invisibility can't 
be negated or seen through by any spell of 3rd level or 
lower or any item of 5th level or lower. 


ELEMENTAL GEM 


ETE 

Price 200 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — 

Activate *99 command, Interact 

You shout the name of an elemental lord and 

dash this glassy gem against a hard surface 
to activate it. It cracks open, casting a 5th-level 
summon elemental spell to summon forth an 
elemental you control as long as you spend an action 

each round to Sustain the Activation. 

This gem comes in four varieties: transparent for a living 
whirlwind, light brown for a living landslide, reddish orange 
for a living wildfire, and blue-green for a living waterfall. 


FEATHER TOKEN ITEM 1+ 


ITEM9 


| macica | 


ITEM 10 


UNCOMMON | CONSUMABLE | ENCHANTMENT | 
Price 75 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — 

Activate *9 Interact 

This tapered candle has a golden wick that burns with white fire. 
You activate the candle by lighting it, which causes creatures 
within 10 feet of the candle to find it difficult to tell falsehoods. 
Creatures in the area receive a -4 status penalty to Lie. 

In addition, when first entering the affected area, each 
creature (including you) must succeed at a DC 26 Will save or 
be unable to tell any deliberate lies while within 10 feet of the 
lit candle. This lasts for as long as the candle is lit. Once lit, the 
candle burns for 10 minutes, and it cannot be extinguished. 


DUST OF APPEARANCE ITEM 6 
Price 50 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — 

Activate *9 Interact 

Stored in a small reed, this powder looks like a fine metallic 
dust. When you fling it in the air, it coats all creatures in a 
10-foot burst centered on a point within 5 feet of you. For 1 
minute, the coated creatures can’t be concealed or invisible, 
nor can they benefit from mirror image or similar abilities 
that create illusory duplicates. Any illusions in the area of 


MAGICAL | MENTAL 


EI 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — 

Activate *9 Interact 

Each feather token appears to be a simple feather from some 
exotic bird. The feather's shaft, dipped in gold, bears a single 
arcane rune. Activating a feather token causes it to transform 
into another object, which then can be used as normal for that 
object. Each feather can be activated only once, with most of 
them permanently becoming the item in their description. 
Type anchor; Level 7; Price 55 gp 

This feather can be activated only on a boat. When activated, 
this feather transforms into a massive anchor that causes the 
boat to immediately stop. After 1 day, the anchor vanishes and 
the boat can move as normal. The anchor is attached to the 
boat by a magical chain of force, but the chain can be removed 
by dispel magic or destroyed (Hardness 30, HP 40). 

Type bird; Level 3; Price 8 gp 

When activated, this token transforms into a small sparrow that 
waits on your finger for you to relay a message up to 1 minute in 
length, along with the name and rough location of a recipient. 
The recipient must be someone you have met, and the location 
must be somewhere you have visited. After receiving the 
message, the bird flies off to deliver it, traveling at 30 miles 
per hour and then searching for the target in the location you 
provided. If the bird finds the target, it moves adjacent to them, 


your words emanate from the bird, and the bird then flies off 
and vanishes. The bird also vanishes if it fails to find your target 
after 10 hours of searching the location you specified. 

Type chest; Level 3; Price 10 gp 

When you use this token, a small wooden chest appears and 
immediately opens. This chest can hold up to 10 Bulk worth 
of items. Once the chest is closed, it transforms again-this 
time into a key—taking all of the stored items with it. You can 
activate this key by spending an Interact action to turn it in an 
imaginary lock, which causes it to transform back into a chest 
with all of the items still inside. Once it has turned into a chest 
a second time, it forever remains a wooden chest. 

Type fan; Level 4; Price 15 gp 

Activating this feather requires you to fan it in a given direction. 
If this direction is toward the sail of a vessel, the feather flutters 
up toward the sail and fans continuously, filling the sail with air 
and granting the vessel a +10-foot circumstance bonus to its 
Speed for 8 hours. If fanned in any other direction, it instead 
produces a single casting of gust of wind (DC 20). 


HOLY WATER ITEM 1 
| CONSUMABLE | Divine | coon | necromancy | SPLASH 

Price 3 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Activate *> Strike 


This vial contains water blessed by a good deity. You activate 
a vial of holy water by throwing it as a Strike. It’s a simple 
thrown weapon with a range increment of 20 feet. Unlike an 
alchemical bomb, it doesn’t add the manipulate trait to the 
attack made with it. 

Holy water deals 1d6 good damage and 1 good splash 
damage. It damages only fiends, undead, and creatures that 
have a weakness to good damage. 


JAVELIN OF LIGHTNING ITEM 9 
| CONSUMABLE | ELECTRICITY | evocation | MAGICAL | 
Price 110 gp 7 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *99 command, Interact 


Type holly bush; Level 2; Price 6 gp 
When this feather is activated, it immediately transforms into a 
living holly bush, filling a single square. This bush can provide 
standard cover. In addition, the bush has 2d4 bright-red berries. 
While holly berries are usually poisonous, these berries are 
infused with beneficial magic. You can pick and eat a berry as an 
Interact action to recover 1 Hit Point. Once plucked from the bush, 
a berry becomes non-magical after a few seconds, so it doesn't 
heal you if you don't eat it within the span of your Interact action. 
If activated on soil, the plant continues to grow and thrive 
(although it doesn't produce any more healing berries). If 
activated elsewhere, it withers and dies within 1d4 days. 
Type ladder; Level 1; Price 3 gp 
When activated, this feather transforms 
permanently into a 20-foot-long wooden ladder. 
Type swan boat; Level 8; Price 76 gp 
This feather can be activated only when tossed 
into a large body of water, such as a lake or 
broad river. It transforms into a swan-shaped 
boat capable of carrying up to 32 Medium 
creatures, 8 Large creatures, or 2 Huge 
creatures. The boat moves on the water at a 
Speed of 50 feet, and lasts 1 day. 
Type tree; Level 6; Price 38 gp 
This token can be activated only on an unoccupied 
patch of earth or soil. When activated, this token transforms 
into an oak tree, 60 feet tall with a 5-foot-wide trunk. The tree 
continues to live and grow if conditions are favorable. 
Type whip; Level 9; Price 130 gp 
This feather transforms into a +1 striking dancing whip when 
activated. The whip immediately jumps from your grasp and 
proceeds to attack your enemies until 1 minute has passed or it 
fails its flat check for dancing, at which point it vanishes. If the 
whips target isn't prone, the whip uses its actions to attempt to 
Trip that creature instead of making a Strike. The whip’s total 
attack modifier for Striking or Tripping is +18 instead of the 
normal bonus for a dancing weapon. 


This item looks like a normal javelin carved with lightning-bolt 
motifs. If thrown without being activated, it wobbles in the 
air and fails to strike true. When you Activate the javelin, your 
command makes the carvings crackle with electricity. You then 
hurl the javelin. It shatters immediately after leaving your hand 
and unleashes its magic as a 4th-level lightning bolt originating 
from your space. The bolt deals 5d12 electricity damage and 
has a Reflex save DC of 25. 

Craft Requirements Supply a casting of lightning bolt (4th level). 


RUNESTONE ITEM 1 
Price 3 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
This flat piece of hard stone is specially prepared for etching a 
magical fundamental rune or property rune. You can 
etch only one rune upon a stone. Once the stone is 
etched, it gains the magic school trait of the rune 
etched upon it. When a rune is transferred from 
the runestone to another object, the runestone 
cracks and is destroyed. The Price listed is for an 
empty stone; a stone holding a rune adds the Price 
of the rune. 


UNHOLY WATER 


ITEM 1 


CONSUMABLE | DIVINE || evi. | necromancy | SPLASH 
Price 3 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Activate *> Strike 


An evil deity's malice lies within this vial of water. You activate 
a vial of unholy water by throwing it as a Strike. It's a simple 
thrown weapon with a range increment of 20 feet. Unlike an 
alchemical bomb, it doesnt add the manipulate trait to the 
attack made with it. 

Unholy water deals 1d6 evil damage and 1 evil splash damage. 
It damages only celestials and creatures that have a weakness 
to evil damage. 


he 


| 
| 


EQUIPMENT 
ME 


SPELLS 


a 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


— Ae. 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


oo 
al 


— wem VEI eu a Loma m co aper 
F CORE RULEBOOK 4 
———— ll i vm " 


HELD ITEMS 


These items need to be held to use them. Weapons, wands, 
and staves follow special rules and have their own sections. 


BAG OF HOLDING 

| CONJURATION | EXTRADIMENSIONAL | MAGICAL | 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1 
Though it appears to be a cloth sack decorated with panels 
of richly colored silk or stylish embroidery, a bag of holding 
opens into an extradimensional space larger than its outside 
dimensions. The Bulk held inside the bag doesn't change the 
Bulk of the bag of holding itself. The amount of Bulk the bag's 
extradimensional space can hold depends on its type. 

You can Interact with the bag of holding to stow items in it 
or remove them just like a mundane sack. Though the bag can 
hold a great amount of material, an object still needs to be able 
to fit through the opening of the sack to be stored inside. 

If the bag is overloaded or broken, it ruptures and is 
ruined, causing the items inside to be lost forever. If it's 
turned inside out, the items inside spill out unharmed, 
but the bag must be put right before 
it can be used again. A living creature 
placed inside the bag has enough air for 
10 minutes before it begins to suffocate, 
and it can attempt to Escape against a DC of 13. An 
item inside the bag provides no benefits unless it's 
retrieved first. An item in the bag can't be detected 
by magic that detects only things on the same plane. 
Type |; Level 4; Price 75 gp; Capacity 25 Bulk 
Type II; Level 7; Price 300 gp; Capacity 50 Bulk 
Type III; Level 11; Price 1,200 gp; Capacity 100 Bulk 
Type IV; Level 13; Price 2,400 gp; Capacity 150 Bulk 


BOTTLED AIR 
| ar | conuration | macica | 
Price 320 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
Appearing to be an ordinary corked glass 
bottle, this item contains a limitless supply of 
fresh air. You must uncork the bottle with an 
Interact action before you can activate it. 
Activate «> Interact; Effect You draw a breath 
of air from the bottle. This allows you to breathe 
even in an airless or toxic environment. Air doesn't escape 
the mouth of the bottle, so leaving the open bottle in an 
airless environment doesn't change the environment. 


BROOM OF FLYING ITEM 12 


| MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 

Price 1,900 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

This broom has a tenuous connection to gravity, and it tends to 
drift even while stowed. You can ride on the broom using one 
hand to guide it, and the broom can carry up to one passenger 
in addition to you. The broom moves at a fly Speed of 20 feet. 
The broom can carry only so much, taking a -10-foot penalty 


ITEM 4+ 


to its Speed if laden with more than 20 Bulk, and crashing to 
the ground if it carries more than 30 Bulk. 

Activate *99 command, Interact; Effect You name a 
destination on the same plane, and the broom speeds 
toward it at a fly Speed of 40 feet. You must either 

clutch the broom with two hands in order to ride it, 
or you need to release the broom to send it off with no 
rider. If you don't have a good idea of the location, layout, 
and general direction of the destination, or if your named 
destination is on another plane, the broom wanders 
aimlessly, circling back to its starting location after 30 
minutes. 
If the broom carries a rider, this activation lasts until 
4 hours pass (typically 16 miles of travel), the broom 
reaches its destination, or you Dismiss the activation. If 
the broom doesn't have a rider, the activation lasts until 
the broom reaches its destination. When the activation 
ends, the broom floats to the ground and cant be 
activated again for 1 hour. 


CHIME OF OPENING 


ITEM 6 


Price 235 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
This hollow mithral tube is about a foot long and bears 
engravings reminiscent of open locks and broken chains. 
The chime can be activated 10 times before it cracks and 
becomes useless. 
Activate *9 Interact; Effect You aim the chime at a container, 
door, or lock you want to open and strike the chime. The 
chime sends out magical vibrations that attempt a 
Thievery check against the lock’s DC, with a Thievery 
bonus of +13. This targets only one lock or binding 


multiple times to open a target with several forms of 
protection. 


ITEM 14+ 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

This polished crystal sphere enhances scrying magic. Any 

visual information received through a spell with the scrying 

trait that was cast by the crystal ball appears within the 
sphere, and any auditory information sounds out from the 
surface of the sphere. When you cast a scrying spell by any 
other means while holding the sphere, you can relay any 
information you receive in the same way, allowing others to 
see or hear the target. 

The base version of a crystal ball is a sphere of clear quartz, 
but other versions are made of different stones. 

Activate 1 minute (command, envision, Interact); Frequency 
once per hour; Effect The crystal ball casts clairvoyance to 
your specifications. 

Activate 10 minutes (command, envision, Interact); Frequency. 

twice per day; Effect The crystal ball casts a DC 33 scrying 

spell to your specifications. 


Type clear quartz; Level 14; Price 3,800 gp 
Type selenite; Level 15; Price 7,000 gp 
Scrying is DC 36 and gives you the benefits of see invisibility 
on the target. 

Type moonstone; Level 16; Price 7,500 gp 

Scrying is DC 37 and gives you the benefits of mind reading 
on the target, using the same save DC. 

Type peridot; Level 17; Price 12,500 gp 

Scrying is DC 39 and gives you the benefits of 
telepathy for communicating with the target. 
Type obsidian; Level 19; Price 32,000 gp 

Scrying is DC 41 and gives you the benefits of 
true seeing for anything you watch through it. 


DECANTER OF ENDLESS WATER ITEM7 
| CONJURATION f MAGICAL | WATER 
Price 320 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L 
This item looks like an ordinary glass flask full of water. 
The stopper can't be removed unless you speak one of 
the item’s three command words, each of which causes water 
to pour forth in a different way. Pulling the stopper straight 
out creates fresh water, and rotating it as you pull creates salt 
water. Any effect of the decanter lasts until the decanter is 
plugged (with its own stopper, a finger, or the like). 

Activate *} command, Interact; Effect Speaking “stream,” 
you cause water to pour at a rate of 1 gallon per round. 

Activate *9 command, Interact; Effect Speaking “fountain,” 
you cause water to pour in a 5-foot-long stream at a rate 
of 5 gallons per round. 

Activate *} command, Interact; Effect Speaking “geyser,” 
you cause a powerful deluge of water to erupt at a 
rate of 15 gallons per round. You can direct the 
stream at a creature, subjecting it to the effects 
of hydraulic push (spell attack roll +15). You 
can repeat this once per round as long as the 
geyser continues, spending an Interact 
action to direct the geyser each time. 


EVERBURNING TORCH ITEM 1 
| evocation | ucht | macicat | 
Price 15 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

An everburning torch is one of the most common applications 
of permanent magic. This torch sheds light constantly, requiring 
no oxygen and generating no heat. The flame can be covered or 
hidden, but can't be smothered or quenched. 


HOLY PRAYER BEADS 


| UNCOMMON | pivine Ee necromancy | ES 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — 

This strand of ordinary-looking prayer beads glows with a 
soft light and becomes warm to the touch the first time you 
cast a divine spell while holding it. When you do, the prayer 
beads become attuned to your deity, changing their form 


and iconography to prominently incorporate your deity's 


ITEM 5+ 


religious symbol and iconography. The beads don't transform 
or function for an evil spellcaster. 

Whenever you cast a divine spell from your own spell slots 
while holding the prayer beads, you recover 1 Hit Point; this 
is a positive healing effect. If the spell you cast was a healing 

spell, you can grant this additional healing to one of the 
spell's targets instead of yourself. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect Cast bless or heal, each 
once per day. 
Type holy prayer beads; Level 5; Price 160 gp 

Type greater holy prayer beads; Level 11; Price 

1,400 gp 

You recover 1d4 Hit Points instead of 1 Hit Point 
when casting divine spells from your spell slots. 
Change the beads’ list of spells to the 4th-level 

versions of bless, divine wrath (matching one component 
of your deity's alignment), heal, neutralize poison, and 
remove disease. You can cast each of these once per day. 

Craft Requirements You have a spellcasting class 

feature with the divine tradition. 


HORN OF BLASTING 
Price 700 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
A horn of blasting is a bright brass trumpet. It can be 
played as an instrument, granting a +2 item bonus to 
your Performance check. 
Activate *> Interact; Frequency once per round; Effect 
Blowing into the horn with destructive intent, you create 
a blast note targeting one creature within 30 feet. 
The blast deals 3d6 sonic damage (DC 28 basic 
Fortitude save). 
Activate *99 Interact; Frequency once per 
day; Effect You blow even louder to create an 
intense blast wave in a 30-foot cone that 
deals 8d6 sonic damage. Each creature 
attempts a DC 28 Fortitude save with 
the following effects. 
Critical Success The creature takes 
no damage. 
Success The creature takes half damage. 
Failure The creature takes full damage and is deafened for 
2d6 rounds. 


HORN OF FOG 


ITEM 9 


i) 
Yt 


ITEM 6 


| water | 


[x] 
[=] 
= 
= 
E 
= 
Ss 
=z 
= 
> 
E 
S 
> 
= 


Price 230 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 


This large ram's horn perpetually glistens with tiny droplets of 

water, much like condensation. 

Activate *99 Interact; Frequency once per hour; Effect You 
activate the horn by blowing deeply into it, causing it to 
issue forth a low blast and cast a 2nd-level obscuring mist 
spell. You can Dismiss the mist at any time by blowing a 
second note on the horn using an Interact action. 


Isa 


f 
| 


EQUIPMENT 
ME 


SPELLS 
GT 


3i 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


98. 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


"oo" 
val 


JATHF CORE RULEBOOK j 

lis a — trs inrita ae "a n d i 
IMMOVABLE ROD ITEM 9 
CO 
Price 600 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This flat iron bar is almost completely nondescript, except for 
one small button appearing on its surface. 

Activate *9 Interact; You push the button to anchor the rod 
in place. It doesn't move, defying gravity if need be. If the 
button is pushed again, the rod deactivates, ending 
the anchoring magic. While anchored, the 
rod can be moved only if 8,000 pounds of 
pressure are applied to it or if a creature 
uses Athletics to Force Open the rod with a 
DC of 40 (though most intelligent creatures 
can just push the button to release the rod). 


MAESTRO'S INSTRUMENT ITEM 3+ 
ETXTUGETM 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1 
A maestro's instrument can be crafted in the form of 
any variety of handheld musical instrument. A maestro's d 
instrument grants you a +1 item bonus to Performance X 
checks while playing music with the instrument. o 
Activate 99 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You 
play the instrument, causing it to cast a DC 17 charm spell. 
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 60 gp 
Type moderate; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
The item bonus is +2, and the charm spell is 4th level (DC 27). 
Type greater; Level 18; Price 19,000 gp 
The item bonus is *3, and the charm spell is 8th level (DC 38). 
Craft Requirements You must supply a casting of charm 
of the appropriate level. 


MARVELOUS MEDICINES 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1 
This set of healers tools contains a seemingly 
endless supply of bandages, herbs, and healing items 
of impeccable quality, granting you a *2 item bonus to 
Medicine checks. 

Activate *® Treat Poison or 8 hours (Treat Disease); Effect 
You can activate the tools when you use them to Treat 
Poison in order to produce the effects of neutralize 
poison, or when you Treat Disease in order to produce the 
effects of remove disease. Once these medicines have been 
used to treat a patient's poison or disease, they can't be 
used again to treat the same affliction for that patient. 

Type marvelous medicines; Level 12; Price 1,800 gp 

Type greater marvelous medicines; Level 18; Price 19,000 gp 

The tools grant a *3 item bonus, and the spells are heightened 

to 6th level. 


POSSIBILITY TOME 
ETTNETT 


Price 22,000 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2 


ITEM 12+ 


ITEM 18 


An array of semiprecious stones is set into the ornate silver 
and beaten copper cover of this thick and weighty tome. If 
you open the book before it's been activated, its vellum pages 
are blank and pristine, but once activated, words dance and 
swim onto the pages before your eyes. 
Activate 10 minutes (envision, Interact); Effect As you flip 
through the book, you think about a broad topic you want 
to know more about. Choose one skill: Arcana, Crafting, 
Medicine, Nature, Occultism, Religion, Society, or a single 
subcategory of Lore. The book's pages fill with 
information about that skill, though only you can 
see the information. While the pages are full, 
you can spend an Interact action perusing the 
book just before attempting a check to Recall 
Knowledge with the chosen skill. This grants 
you a +3 item bonus to the check, and if you 
roll a critical failure, you get a failure instead. 
The information within the book disappears after 
24 hours or when the tome is activated again. 


ITEM 6+ 


a’ 


PRIMEVAL MISTLETOE 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — 
This sprig of berry-festooned holly and mistletoe doesn't wilt 
or rot. It can be used as a primal focus, and it also grants the 
creature holding it a +1 item bonus to Nature checks. 
Activate 99 Interact; Frequency once per 10 minutes; Effect 

You squeeze juice from one of the berries and smear it onto 

a club or staff to cast shillelagh upon it. 

Activate *99 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You 
twine the sprig around the wrist of one hand and touch a 
tree to cast tree shape upon yourself, except instead of a 
becoming a tree, you become a vine on the touched tree. 
Type primeval mistletoe; Level 6; Price 230 gp 

Type greater primeval mistletoe; Level 14; Price 3,900 gp 

The sprig grants a *2 bonus and can be activated in one 

additional way: 

Activate 99 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You 

plant the greater primeval mistletoe into an area 

of natural earth or stone. Once planted, the plant 
immediately sprouts into an area of holly bushes 
that don't impede movement and that pulse with positive 
energy, replicating the effects of a field of life spell. This 
lasts for up to 1 minute, as long as you continue to Sustain 
the Activation. When this magic ends, the holly bushes 
revert back into the original greater primeval mistletoe. 


ROD OF NEGATION ITEM 14 
Price 4,300 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

This long, plain, leaden rod can disrupt magic. 

Activate *99 Interact; Effect This rod emits a thin, gray beam 
that negates a spell or magic item, casting a 6th-level 
dispel magic spell with a counteract modifier of +23. Once 
activated, the rod can't be activated again for 2d6 hours. 


ROD OF WONDER 
[rare cio | evocavon J waa 
Price 465 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
This peculiar rod is strange and unpredictable. Each time it is 
activated, it produces one of a variety of effects at random. 
Activate *99 command, Interact; Effect Choose a creature 
within 60 feet and roll d% on the table below to determine 
the rod's effect. If an entry lists only a spell name, the rod 
casts that spell at its lowest level. You make any decisions 
for a spell cast by the rod unless otherwise indicated, 
except that it must target the creature you chose, or the 
creature you chose must be the center of the spell's area, if 
it has an area but no targets. If the spell's range is less than 
60 feet, increase the range to 60 feet. 
Any spell DC required is DC 27, and any spell attack roll 
required is *17. If the rod casts a spell on you, you don't get 
a saving throw or other defense against it. 
The rod can't be activated again for 1d4 hours. 


ITEM 8 


d% Wondrous Effect 

1S) Leaves grow from the target; they last 24 hours 

4-8 Darkness 

g Summon a giant stag beetle (5th-level summon 
animal; Pathfinder Bestiary 41) 


10-13 A stream of 600 large and colorful 
butterflies pours forth, fluttering in 
a 20-foot burst for 2 rounds; 
creatures are blinded while in the 
cloud of butterflies 

14-15 All the target's weapons animate 
with the effects of the dancing rune 

16-25 Lightning bolt 

26-29 Grass grows in a 60-foot cone in front 
of the rod, or existing grass grows at 
10 x normal rate 

30 Target turns blue, green, or purple with an 
unlimited duration 

31 Summon an elephant (6th-level summon animal; 
Pathfinder Bestiary 154) 

32-34 Heavy rain falls in a 60-foot radius around you for 
1 round 

35-38 Stinking cloud 

39 Summon an ineffective mouse (1st-level summon 
animal) 

40-42 Vibrant pattern, with a 1-round duration 

43-44 The rod casts mirror image on you 

45-46 Gust of wind 

47-48 The non-living, unattended object closest to the 
target (up to 30 cubic feet in size) turns ethereal for 
an unlimited duration 

49-53 Slow 

54 You turn blue, green, or purple with an unlimited 
duration 

55-59 The rod casts pest form on you, lasting 1d4 rounds 

60-61 1d4 x 10 gems, each worth 1 sp, shoot from the rod, 


& CRAFTING & TREASURE 
E z i 


9 a — ima... 


dealing 1 piercing damage to each creature in a 
15-foot cone 

62 Sleep, with a 100-foot burst 

63-72 Fireball 

73-77 Mind reading 

78-80 Roll again; the target believes you created the 

effect of the second roll 

Enlarge 

Target is coated in nectar, making it clumsy 1 for 

1 round 

88-92 Faerie fire 

93-97 The rod casts invisibility on you 

98-100 The rod casts shrink on you, lasting 1 day 


SKELETON KEY 


| MAGICAL [ TRANSMUTATION | 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — 

A grinning skull tops the bow of this macabre key. This key 

can be used in place of thieves' tools when attempting to Pick 

a Lock, and it grants a *1 item bonus to the Thievery check. 

If the skeleton key becomes broken due to a critical failure 

on the check, it works as normal thieves' tools and loses its 

benefits until repaired. 

Activate © Interact; Frequency once per day; Trigger You 
attempt to Pick a Lock but haven't rolled yet; Effect The key 
casts knock on the lock you're trying to pick. 

Type skeleton key; Level 5; Price 125 gp 

Type greater skeleton key; Level 11; Price 1,250 gp 

The key grants a *2 item bonus, and you can activate the key 

once per hour. 


THURIBLE OF REVELATION 


Emm 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This brass censer dangles on a length of chain. 
Most thuribles of revelation are adorned with 
swirling Celestial text, though some are 
i iron and feature Infernal or Abyssal text. 
d Activate *99 Interact; Cost incense worth 
at least 5 gp; Effect You light the incense inside the 
censer, and it burns for 1 hour. During that time, as long you 
are holding the thurible, you gain a +1 item bonus to Religion 
checks, and any critical failure you roll when you Decipher 
Writing of a religious nature is a failure instead. 
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 55 gp 
Type moderate; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
The thurible grants a +2 bonus. Once per day, when you 
activate the thurible, you can increase its revelations. During 
that activation, you can hold the thurible up to your eyes with 
an Interact action to gain the effects of see invisibility for 1 
round by peering through the smoke. 
Type greater; Level 18; Price 19,000 gp 
The thurible grants a +3 bonus. The greater version shares the 
once-per-day enhanced revelations of the moderate version, 
except peering through the smoke also grants you the effects 
of true seeing. 


81-84 
85-87 


ITEM 5+ 


ITEM 3+ 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 
a 


M 
| THE AGE OF 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


| - DRAFTING 
E E ete 


; am NDI 


i 
5 
"UR 


ITEM 6 


Price200 gp — 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1 


Before it’s activated, this item appears to be an ash rod capped 

with steel on either end. 

Activate 99 envision, Interact; Effect You imagine a specific 
simple tool, and the any-tool transforms into it. (Usually, you 
can choose from a tool listed in Chapter 6). This transforms 
the wooden portion into any haft and the metal caps into 
spades, hammer heads, or the like, allowing for most basic 
tools but nothing more complex. You can return the item to 
its rod form with an Interact action. 


TRITON'S CONCH 

Price 640 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

If you put this large opalescent conch shell to your ear, 

you can hear the sound of the roaring sea crashing against 

the shore. 

Activate *9 Interact (auditory); Effect You can raise the conch 
to your lips and blow into it, letting out a long, rumbling 
note. For the next minute, you and all allies who were 
within 30 feet of you when you activated the conch gain a 
*2 item bonus to Athletics checks to Swim and can breathe 
under water. 


WONDROUS FIGURINE 


Usage held in 1 and. Bulk L 

Each one of these statuettes is 1 inch in height, carved from 
a specific material and taking the shape of a particular animal 
or animals. 


ITEM 9 


ITEM 2+ 


Activate *99 command, Interact; Effect You activate the statue 
by placing it on solid ground and then speaking its name, 
causing the statuette to transform into a living creature 
or creatures. In creature form, the figurine has the minion 
trait. It can understand your language and it obeys you to 
the best of its ability when you use an action to command 
it. The specifics of each creature, as well as the activation's 
frequency (if any), appear in its entry below. 

If the figurine is slain while in animal form, it reverts to 
its statue shape and cannot be activated again until 1 week 
has passed. If the figurine is destroyed in statue form, it is 
shattered and its magic is lost. 

Type golden lions; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
This statuette depicts a pair of gold lions, and when activated, 
it becomes a pair of adult lions (Pathfinder Bestiary 52). The 
lions can be called on only once per day, and they remain 
in lion form for no more than 1 hour. If either of the lions 
is slain, that lion cannot be summoned again until 1 week 
has passed, but this doesn't prevent you from summoning 
the other. 

Type jade serpent; Level 7; Price 340 gp 

This tiny statue first appears to be a formless lump of jade 

until closer inspection reveals it to be a serpentine body curled 

into a snug knot. When activated, this figurine becomes a 

giant viper (Pathfinder Bestiary 303). The figurine can be used 

only once per day, and it can remain in serpent form for no 
more than 10 minutes. 

Type marble elephant; Level 13; Price 2,700 gp 

Finely carved from a solid piece of marble, this gleaming 

elephant statuette becomes a fully grown elephant 

(Pathfinder Bestiary 154) when activated. The elephant 

can be called upon no more than four times per month. 

It remains for 24 hours as long as it is being used as a 

beast of burden or for transport. If it attempts an attack or 

otherwise engages in combat, it reverts to statuette form 
after 1d4 rounds. 

Type obsidian steed; Level 15 (uncommon); Price 6,000 gp 

This sinister-looking black statuette resembles a horse rearing 

up on its hind legs. When activated, this figurine becomes a 

nightmare (Pathfinder Bestiary 244). It can be called upon 

once per week for up to 24 hours, though it won't use plane 
shift or its other abilities on behalf of its rider. Although evil, 
it allows itself to be ridden by creatures of any alignment, 
although if a good creature mounts it, the rider must attempt 

a DC 3 flat check. On a failure, the nightmare uses plane shift 

to take the rider to a random location in the Abyss, where 

it promptly returns to statue form, stranding its rider in that 
nightmarish place. 

Type onyx dog; Level 2; Price 34 gp 

This simple onyx statue transforms into a guard dog 

(Pathfinder Bestiary 102). The dog has a *4 circumstance 

bonus to Survival checks to Track, and it has darkvision. 

When the dog senses a hidden creature with its scent, that 

creature is instead observed and concealed. The onyx dog 

can be activated once per week and remains in its form for 
up to 6 hours. 


MATERIALS 

Most items are made from readily available materials— 
usually leather, wood, or steel—but some weapons and 
armor are made from more exotic materials, giving 
them unique properties and other advantages. Weapons 
made from precious materials are better able to harm 
certain creatures, and armor of these materials provides 
enhanced protection. 

Most materials are metals; they can be used to make 
metal weapons and armor. The GM is the final arbiter of 
what items can be made using a material. An item can be 
made with no more than one precious material, and only 
an expert in Crafting can create it. Some rare and exotic 
materials require master or even legendary proficiency. 

A material’s Price depends on how hard it is to work, 
its scarcity, and its purity; most items made with precious 
materials use an alloy, blend, or coating rather than using 
the material in its purest form. The three grades of purity 
for precious materials are low-grade, standard-grade, and 
high-grade. Regardless of a precious material’s purity, an 
item made from it gains the full effects of the precious 
material, but creating higher-level items and more powerful 
magic runes with precious material requires greater purity. 

Some precious materials are available only at certain 
grades. For instance, adamantine can’t be low-grade, and 
orichalcum must be high-grade. Items made of materials 
with a lower grade than expected for the item’s level, or of 
a higher grade than necessary, will mention the precious 
material’s grade. 


MATERIAL STATISTICS 
Table 11-4 below provides the Hardness, Hit Points, 
Broken Threshold, and example items for some types 


of common materials. The table has separate entries for 
thin items (like shields), ordinary items (like armor), and 
reinforced or durable structures (such as walls). 

Stone is a catchall for any hard stone, such as granite 
and marble. Likewise, wood covers ordinary woods, such 
as oak and pine. Metal weapons and armor are assumed 
to be made of iron or steel unless noted otherwise. 

If an object consists of more than one material, the 
GM typically uses the statistics for the strongest material 
involved. For instance, breaking a wall made of paper 
panels over a woven wooden framework would require 
damaging thin wood, not paper. However, the GM 
might choose the weaker material based on the item’s 
function. For instance, breaking the wooden handle of 
a hammer rather than its iron head would still render 
the item unusable. Sometimes an item is even less sturdy 
than the Hardness and Hit Points provided for a thin 
object; for instance, a twig doesn’t take 9 damage to 
break, even though it’s made of thin wood. Similarly, 
a particularly sturdy item or structure might have even 
higher Hardness and Hit Points. Certain structures, 
particularly thick walls, are so reinforced that you have 
to break them down over time with tools. (Page 515 has 
more information on walls.) 


PRECIOUS MATERIALS 


Materials with the precious trait can be substituted for 
base materials. For example, a hammer’s head could be 
made of adamantine instead of iron. Items made of a 
precious material cost more than typical items; not only 
does precious material cost more, but the crafter must 
invest more time working with it. In addition, more 
powerful items require precious materials of greater purity. 


TABLE 11-4: MATERIAL HARDNESS, HIT POINTS, AND BROKEN THRESHOLD 


Material Hardness HP 
Paper 0 1 

Thin cloth 0 1 

Thin glass 0 1 

Cloth 1 4 
Glass 1 4 
Glass structure 2 8 
Thin leather 2 8 
Thin rope 2 8 
Thin wood 3 12 
Leather 4 16 
Rope 4 16 
Thin stone 4 16 
Thin iron or steel 5 20 
Wood 5 20 
Stone 7 28 
Iron or steel 9 36 
Wooden structure 10 40 
Stone structure 14 56 
Iron or steel structure 18 72 


BT Example Items 

= Book pages, paper fan, scroll 

- Kite, silk dress, undershirt 

= Bottle, spectacles, window pane 

2 Cloth armor, heavy jacket, sack, tent 
2 Glass block, glass table, heavy vase 
4 Glass block wall 

4 Backpack, jacket, pouch, strap, whip 
4 Standard adventuring rope 

6 Chair, club, sapling, wooden shield 

8 Leather armor, saddle 

8 Industrial rope, ship rigging 

8 Chalkboard, slate tiles, stone cladding 
10 Chain, steel shield, sword 

10 Chest, simple door, table, tree trunk 
14 Paving stone, statue 

18 Anvil, iron or steel armor, stove 

20 Reinforced door, wooden wall 

28 Stone wall 

36 Iron plate wall 


THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


| PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
DRE ERR Mew ME rail 


A number of precious materials are described below. The 
Price entry for each material gives the Price of a simple 
non-magical item made of that material, based on its Bulk 
(if the item is lighter than 1 Bulk, use the price for 1 Bulk), 
as well as Prices for different amounts of the material itself. 
Prices for armor, shields, and weapons made of precious 
material are in the Armor (page 555), Shields (page 586), 
and Weapons (page 599) sections of this chapter. 


CRAFTING WITH Precious MATERIALS 

Only an expert crafter can create a low-grade item, only 
a master can create a standard-grade item, and only a 
legendary crafter can create a high-grade item. In addition, 
to Craft with a precious material, your character level 
must be equal to or greater than that of the material. 

Low-grade items can be used in the creation of magic 
items of up to 8th level, and they can hold runes of up 
to 8th level. Standard-grade items can be used to create 
magic items of up to 15th level and can hold runes of 
up to 15th level. High-grade items use the purest form 
of the precious material, and can be used to Craft magic 
items of any level holding any runes. Using purer forms 
of common materials is so relatively inexpensive that the 
Price is included in any magic item. 

When you Craft an item that incorporates a precious 
material, your initial raw materials for the item must 
include that material; at least 10% of the investment 
must be of the material for low-grade, at least 25% for 
standard-grade, and all of it for high-grade. For instance, 
a low-grade silver object of 1 Bulk costs 20 gp. Of the 10 
gp of raw materials you provide when you start to Craft 
the item, at least 1 gp must be silver. The raw materials 
you spend to complete the item don’t have to consist of the 
precious material, though the GM might rule otherwise in 
certain cases. 

After creating an item with a precious material, you can 
use Craft to improve its grade, paying the Price difference 
and providing a sufficient amount of the precious material. 


ADAMANTINE MATERIAL 8+ 


rere rocks that fell from the heavens, adamantine is one 
of the hardest metals known. It has a shiny, black appearance, 
and it is prized for its amazing resiliency and ability to hold an 
incredibly sharp edge. 


Items 
Standard-grade 14 56 28 
High-grade 17 68 34 
Structures 
Standard-grade 28 112 56 
High-grade 34 136 68 
COLD IRON MATERIAL 2+ 


| precious J 

Weapons made from cold iron are deadly to demons and fey alike. 

Cold iron looks like normal iron but is mined from particularly 

pure sources and shaped with little or no heat. This process is 

extremely difficult, especially for high-grade cold iron items. 

Type cold iron chunk; Price 10 gp; Bulk L 

Type cold iron ingot; Price 100 gp; Bulk 1 

Type low-grade cold iron object; Level 2; Price 20 gp per Bulk 

Type standard-grade cold iron object; Level 7; Price 250 gp 
per Bulk 

Type high-grade cold iron object; Level 15; Price 4,500 gp 
per Bulk 


Cold Iron Items Hardness HP BT 
Thin Items 
Low-grade 5 20 10 
Standard-grade 7 28 14 
High-grade 10 40 20 
Items 
Low-grade 9 36 18 
Standard-grade 1i 44 22 
High-grade 14 56 28 
Structures 
Low-grade 18 72 36 
Standard-grade 22 88 44 
High-grade 28 112 56 
DARKWOOD MATERIAL 8+ 


UNCOMMON | PRECIOUS | 


Darkwood is a very lightweight wood found primarily in old- 
growth forests in south-central Avistan; it is dark as ebony but 
has a slight purple tint. A darkwood item's Bulk is reduced by 
1 (or to light Bulk if its normal Bulk is 1, with no effect on an 
item that normally has light Bulk). The Price of an item made 
of darkwood is based on the item's normal Bulk, not its reduced 
Bulk for being made of darkwood, but reduce the Bulk before 
making any further Bulk adjustments for the size of the item. 


Type adamantine chunk; Price 500 gp; Bulk L 


Type darkwood branch; Price 500 gp; Bulk L 


Type adamantine ingot; Price 5,000 gp; Bulk 1 


Type darkwood lumber; Price 5,000 gp; Bulk 1 


Type standard-grade adamantine object; Level 8; Price 350 gp 
per Bulk 


Type standard-grade darkwood object; Level 8; Price 350 gp 
per Bulk 


Type high-grade adamantine object; Level 16; Price 6,000 gp 
per Bulk 


Adamantine Items Hardness HP BT 
Thin Items 
Standard-grade 10 40 20 


High-grade 13 52 26 


Type high-grade darkwood object; Level 16; Price 6,000 gp 
per Bulk 


Darkwood Items Hardness HP BT 
Thin Items 
Standard-grade 5 20 10 
High-grade 8 32 16 


Items 
Standard-grade 7 28 14 
High-grade 10 40 20 
Structures 
Standard-grade 14 56 28 
High-grade 20 80 40 
DRAGONHIDE MATERIAL 8+ 


Í UNCOMMON | Precious 


The hide and scales of a dragon can be used to Craft any item 
normally made of ordinary leather or hide. Dragonhide varies in 
color from blue to glittering gold, depending on the dragon it came 
from. Due to the scales’ resiliency, it can also be used to Craft 
armor usually made out of metal plates (such as a breastplate, 
half plate, and full plate), allowing such armor to be made without 
metal. Dragonhide objects are immune to one damage type, 
depending on the type of dragon (see the table below). 

Type standard-grade dragonhide object; Level 8; Price 350 gp 

per Bulk 


gpa Na aaea fet 


E CRAFTING & TREASURE 
wpe MÀ E n 


RI Y EDS n 


<a at 


Mithral Items Hardness HP 
Thin Items 
Standard-grade 5 20 10 
High-grade 8 32 16 
Items 
Standard-grade 9 36 18 
High-grade 12 48 24 
Structures 
Standard-grade 18 72 36 
High-grade 24 96 48 
MATERIAL 17+ 


ORICHALCUM 

| | PRECIOUS | 
t rare and valuable skymetal, orichalcum is coveted for 
its incredible time-related magical properties. This dull, coppery 
metal isn't as physically sturdy as adamantine, but orichalcum's 
time-bending properties protect it, granting it greater Hardness 
and Hit Points. If an orichalcum item takes damage but isn't 
destroyed, it repairs itself completely 24 hours later. 


Type high-grade dragonhide object; Level 16; Price 6,000 gp 
per Bulk 


Dragon Type Resistance 


Black or copper Acid 

Blue or bronze Electricity 

Brass, gold, or red Fire 

Green Poison 

Silver or white Cold 
Dragonhide Items Hardness HP BT 
Thin Items 

Standard-grade 4 16 8 

High-grade 8 32 16 
Items 

Standard-grade 7 28 14 

High-grade 1i 44 22 
MITHRAL MATERIAL 8+ 


 uNcoMMON | Precious | 


Mithral is renowned for its lightness, durability, and 
effectiveness against a range of creatures including devils and 
werecreatures. It has the same sheen as silver but a slightly 
lighter hue. Mithral weapons and armor are treated as if 
they were silver for the purpose of damaging creatures with 
weakness to silver. A metal item made of mithral is lighter 
than one made of iron or steel: the item’s Bulk is reduced by 
1 (reduced to light Bulk if its normal Bulk is 1, with no effect 
on an item that normally has light Bulk). The Price of an item 
made of this material is based on the item's normal Bulk, not 
its reduced Bulk for being made of mithral, but reduce the 
Bulk before making any further Bulk adjustments for the size 
of the item. 

Type mithral chunk; Price 500 gp; Bulk L 

Type mithral ingot; Price 5,000 gp; Bulk 1 

Type standard-grade mithral object; Level 8; Price 350 gp per Bulk 
Type high-grade mithral object; Level 16; Price 6,000 gp per Bulk 


Type orichalcum chunk; Price 1,000 gp; Bulk L 

Type orichalcum ingot; Price 10,000 gp; Bulk 1 

Type high-grade orichalcum object; Level 17; Price 10,000 gp 
per Bulk 


Orichalcum Items Hardness HP 
Thin Items 

High-grade 16 64 32 
Items 

High-grade 18 72 36 
Structures 

High-grade 35 140 70 

MATERIAL 2+ 


SILVER 


Silver weapons are a bane to creatures ranging from devils to 
werewolves. Silver items are less durable than steel items, and 
low-grade silver items are usually merely silver-plated. 

Type silver chunk; Price 10 gp; Bulk L 

Type silver ingot; Price 100 gp; Bulk 1 

Type low-grade silver object; Level 2; Price 20 gp per Bulk 
Type standard-grade silver object; Level 7; Price 250 gp per Bulk 
Type high-grade silver object; Level 15; Price 4,500 gp per Bulk 


Silver Items Hardness HP BT 
Thin Items 
Low-grade 3 12 6 
Standard-grade 5 20 10 
High-grade 8 32 16 
Items 
Low-grade 5 20 10 
Standard-grade 7 28 14 
High-grade 10 40 20 
Structures 
Low-grade 10 40 20 
Standard-grade 14 56 28 
High-grade 20 80 40 


M res 


ü 


EQUIPMENT 
- SPELLS 
Si 


i 
. THE AGE OF 
‘LOST OMENS 


B THE 


GAME 
SE 


CR 
| & TREASURE 


ais aci tr m cate meer 
12 HF! CORE RULEBOOK 4j 
RUNES 


Most magic weapons and armor gain their enhancements 
from potent eldritch runes etched into them. These runes 
allow for in-depth customization of items. 

Runes must be physically engraved on items through a 
special process to convey their effects. They take two forms: 
fundamental runes and property runes. Fundamental 
runes offer the most basic and essential benefits: a weapon 
potency rune adds a bonus to a weapon’s attack rolls, 
and the striking rune adds extra weapon damage dice. An 
armor potency rune increases the armor’s item bonus to 
AC, and the resilient rune grants a bonus to the wearer’s 
saving throws. Property runes, by contrast, grant more 
varied effects—typically powers that are constant while 
the armor is worn or that take effect each time the weapon 
is used, such as a rune that grants energy resistance or one 
that adds fire damage to a weapon’s attacks. 

The number of property runes a weapon or armor can 
have is equal to the value of its potency rune. A +1 weapon 
can have one property rune, but it could hold another 
if the +1 weapon potency rune were upgraded to a +2 
weapon potency rune. Since the striking and resilient runes 
are fundamental runes, they don’t count against this limit. 

An item with runes is typically referred to by the value of 
its potency rune, followed by any other fundamental runes, 
then the names of any property runes, and ends with the 
name of the base item. For example, you might have a +1 
longsword or +2 greater resilient fire-resistant chain mail. 

Rune-etched armor and weapons have the same Bulk 
and general characteristics as the non-magical version 
unless noted otherwise. The level of an item with runes 
etched onto it is equal to the highest level among the base 
item and all runes etched on it; therefore, a +1 striking 
mace (a 4th-level item) with a disrupting rune (a Sth-level 
rune) would be a Sth-level item. 

Each rune can be etched into a specific type of armor or 
weapon, as indicated in the Usage entry of the rune’s stat 
block. Explorer’s clothing can have armor runes etched on 
it even though it’s not armor, but because it’s not in the 
light, medium, or heavy armor category, it can’t have runes 
requiring any of those categories. 


INVESTITURE 


If a suit of armor has any runes, it has the invested trait, 
requiring you to invest it to get its magical benefits. 


RUNE FORMULAS 


The Price of a rune’s formula is the same as the Price of a 
formula for an item of the same level; it can be acquired in 
the same way as an item formula (described on page 293). 


THE ETCHING PROCESS 


Etching a rune on an item follows the same process as 
using the Craft activity to make an item. You must be 
able to Craft magic items, have the formula for the rune, 
have the item you’re adding the rune to in your possession 


throughout the etching process, and meet any special Craft 
Requirements. The rune has no effect until you complete 
the Craft activity. You can etch only one rune at a time. 


TRANSFERRING RUNES 

You can transfer runes between two items. This uses the 
Craft activity, and you must be able to craft magical items. 
You can either move one rune from one item to another 
or swap a rune on one item with a rune on the other item 
(which can be a runestone; page 571). To swap, the runes 
must both be fundamental runes or both be property runes. 

If an item can have two or more property runes, you 
decide which runes to swap and which to leave when 
transferring. If you attempt to transfer a rune to an item 
that can’t accept it, such as transferring a melee weapon 
rune to a ranged weapon, you get an automatic critical 
failure on your Crafting check. If you transfer a potency 
rune, you might end up with property runes on an item 
that can’t benefit from them. These property runes go 
dormant until transferred to an item with the necessary 
potency rune or until you etch the appropriate potency 
rune on the item bearing them. 

The DC of the Crafting check to transfer a rune is 
determined by the item level of the rune being transferred, 
and the Price of the transfer is 10% of the rune’s Price, 
unless transferring from a runestone, which is free. If you’re 
swapping, use the higher level and higher Price between the 
two runes to determine these values. It takes 1 day (instead 
of the 4 days usually needed to Craft) to transfer a rune or 
swap a pair of runes, and you can continue to work over 
additional days to get a discount, as usual with Craft. 


FUNDAMENTAL RUNES 


Four fundamental runes produce the most essential magic 
of protection and destruction: armor potency and resilient 
runes for armor, and weapon potency and striking runes for 
weapons. A potency rune is what makes a weapon a magic 
weapon (page 599) or armor magic armor (page 556). 

An item can have only one fundamental rune of each 
type, though etching a stronger rune can upgrade an 
existing rune to the more powerful version (as described 
in each rune’s entry). As you level up, you typically 
alternate between increasing an item’s potency rune and 
its striking or resilient rune when you can afford to. 


Fundamental Rune Etched Onto Benefit 


Armor potency Armor Increase item bonus to AC 
and determine maximum 
number of property runes 

Resilient Armor Grant item bonus to saves 


Grant an item bonus to 
attack rolls and determine 
maximum number of 
property runes 

Increase weapon damage 
dice 


Weapon potency Weapon 


Striking Weapon 


FUNDAMENTAL Armor RUNES 


ARMOR POTENCY 

En 

Usage etched onto armor 

Magic wards deflect attacks. Increase the armor's item bonus 

to AC by 1. The armor can be etched with one property rune. 
You can upgrade the armor potency rune already etched 

on a suit of armor to a stronger version, increasing the 

values of the existing rune to those of the new rune. You 

must have the formula of the stronger rune to do so, and 

the Price of the upgrade is the difference between the two 

runes’ Prices. 

Type +1 armor potency; Level 5; Price 160 gp; Craft 
Requirements You are an expert in Crafting. 

Type +2 armor potency; Level 11; Price 1,060 gp; Craft 
Requirements You are a master in Crafting. 

Increase the armor's item bonus to AC by 2, and the armor can 

be etched with two property runes. 

Type +3 armor potency; Level 18; Price 20,560 gp; Craft 
Requirements You are legendary in Crafting. 

Increase the armor's item bonus to AC by 3, and the armor can 

be etched with three property runes. 


RESILIENT 

[ruo Tw] 
Usage etched onto armor 
Resilient runes imbue armor with additional protective magic. 
This grants the wearer a *1 item bonus to saving throws. 

You can upgrade the resilient rune already etched on a suit 
of armor to a stronger version, increasing the values of the 
existing rune to those of the new rune. You must have the 
formula of the stronger rune to do so, and the Price of the 
upgrade is the difference between the two runes' Prices. 
Type resilient; Level 8; Price 340 gp 
Type greater resilient; Level 14; Price 3,440 gp 
The armor grants a *2 item bonus to saving throws. 


RUNE 5* 


RUNE 8+ 


E CRAFTING & TREASURE 


— ew > mna... 


SPECIFIC ARMOR AND WEAPONS 
Unlike armor and weapons enhanced with runes, specific 
armor and weapons (such as ghoul hide or a holy avenger) 
are created for a specific purpose and can work quite 
differently from other items of their type. Specific magic 
armor and weapons can't gain property runes, but you 
can add or improve their fundamental runes. 


RUNE TRANSFER EXAMPLES 

You could transfer a flaming rune from a +1 striking 
flaming greatsword to a *2 striking longsword, resulting 
in a +2 striking flaming longsword and a +1 striking 
greatsword. You could swap the weapon potency runes 
from a *1 longsword and a *2 greatsword, resulting in a 
*2longsword and a *1 greatsword. However, you couldn't 
swap a *1 weapon potency rune from one weapon with a 
flaming property rune from another weapon, as the two 
runes don't have the same form. 

When transferring a rune to an item that can hold 
multiple property runes, you can decide whether you 
transfer a single rune or swap runes between the items. 
For example, a +2 weapon can hold two property runes. If 
you transferred a flaming rune from a +1 striking flaming 
rapier to a +2 striking frost warhammer, you would 
decide whether you wanted to end up with a +1 striking 
rapier and a +2 striking flaming frost warhammer or a +1 
striking frost rapier and a +2 striking flaming warhammer. 


The weapon deals three weapon damage dice. 
Type major striking; Level 19; Price 31,065 gp 
The weapon deals four weapon damage dice. 


WEAPON POTENCY 
Fevecaon | wacen } 


Usage etched onto a weapon 


RUNE 2+ 


Type major resilient; Level 20; Price 49,440 gp 
The armor grants a +3 item bonus to saving throws. 


FUNDAMENTAL WEAPON RUNES 


STRIKING 

[ nomm Tora] 

Usage etched onto a weapon 
A striking rune stores destructive magic in the weapon, 
increasing the weapon damage dice it deals to two instead of 
one. For instance, a *1 striking dagger would deal 2d4 damage 
instead of 1d4 damage. 

You can upgrade the striking rune already etched on a 
weapon to a stronger version, increasing the values of the 
existing rune to those of the new rune. You must have the 
formula of the stronger rune to do so, and the Price of the 
upgrade is the difference between the two runes’ Prices. 
Type striking; Level 4; Price 65 gp 
Type greater striking; Level 12; Price 1,065 gp 


RUNE 4+ 


Magical enhancements make this weapon strike true. Attack 
rolls with this weapon gain a +1 item bonus, and the weapon 
can be etched with one property rune. 

You can upgrade the weapon potency rune already 
etched on a weapon to a stronger version, increasing the 
values of the existing rune to those of the new rune. You 
must have the formula of the stronger rune to do so, and 
the Price of the upgrade is the difference between the two 
runes’ Prices. 

Type +1 weapon potency; Level 2; Price 35 gp; Craft 

Requirements You are an expert in Crafting. 

Type +2 weapon potency; Level 10; Price 935 gp; Craft 

Requirements You are a master in Crafting. 

The item bonus to attack rolls is +2, and the weapon can be 
etched with two property runes. 
Type +3 weapon potency; Level 16; Price 8,935 gp; Craft 

Requirements You are legendary in Crafting. 

The item bonus to attack rolls is +3, and the weapon can be 
etched with three property runes. 


DN a SE I STD 


FINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


—? 


ae a 


UPGRADING ARMOR AND WEAPON RUNES 
You'll often want to upgrade the fundamental runes of magic armor or a magic weapon you already have. This requires 
upgrading each rune separately. Tables 11-5 and 11-6 summarize the Price of each step, with a number in parentheses 
indicating the item's level for the Craft activity. This also indicates the typical progression for an adventurer to follow when 
upgrading their armor and weapons. The tables here don't include progressions that aren't as likely to come up, like turning 


a +1 weapon directly into a +7 greater striking weapon. 


TABLE 11-5: ARMOR UPGRADE PRICES 
Starting Armor Improved Armor 
+1 armor +1 resilient armor 
+1 resilient armor +2 resilient armor 
+2 resilient armor +2 greater resilient armor 
+2 greater resilient armor +3 greater resilient armor 
+3 greater resilient armor +3 major resilient armor 


TABLE 11-6: WEAPON UPGRADE PRICES 

Starting Weapon Improved Weapon 
+1 weapon +1 striking weapon 
+1 striking weapon +2 striking weapon 
+2 striking weapon 

+2 greater striking weapon 
+3 greater striking weapon 


+3 major striking weapon 


PROPERTY RUNES 


Property runes add special abilities to armor or a weapon 
in addition to the item’s fundamental runes. If a suit of 
armor or a weapon has multiple etchings of the same 
rune, only the highest-level one applies. You can upgrade 
a property rune to a higher-level type of that rune in the 
same way you would upgrade a fundamental rune. 

Rune abilities that must be activated follow the rules 
for activating magic items on page 532. 


Armor Property Runes 


ANTIMAGIC RUNE 15 
| uncommon | aBjurarion | macicaL | 
Price 6,500 gp 


Usage etched onto armor 

This intricate rune displaces spell energy, granting you a +1 

status bonus to saving throws against magical effects. 

Activate 2 command; Frequency once per day; Trigger A spell 
targets you or includes you in its area; Effect The armor 
attempts to counteract the triggering spell with the effect of 
a /th-level dispel magic spell and a counteract modifier of +26. 

Craft Requirements Supply one casting of dispel magic. 


ENERGY-RESISTANT RUNE 8+ 
EMIT 

Usage etched onto armor 

These symbols convey protective forces from the Elemental 
Planes. You gain resistance 5 to acid, cold, electricity, or fire. 


*2 greater striking weapon 
*3 greater striking weapon 


Price and Process 

340 gp to etch resilient (Bth level) 

900 gp to etch +2 armor potency (11th level) 
3,100 gp to etch greater resilient (14th level) 
19,500 gp to etch +3 armor potency (18th level) 
46,000 gp to etch major resilient (20th level) 


Price and Process 

65 gp to etch striking (4th level) 

900 gp to etch +2 weapon potency (10th level) 
1,000 gp to etch greater striking (12th level) 
8,000 gp to etch +3 weapon potency (16th level) 
30,000 gp to etch major striking (19th level) 


The crafter chooses the damage type when creating the rune. 
Multiple energy-resistant runes can be etched onto a suit of 
armor; rather than using only the highest-level effect, each must 
provide resistance to a different damage type. For instance, a 
+2 acid-resistant greater fire-resistant breastplate would give 
you acid resistance 5 and fire resistance 10. 

Type energy-resistant; Level 8; Price 420 gp 

Type greater energy-resistant; Level 12; Price 1,650 gp 

You gain resistance 10 to the specified damage type. 


ETHEREAL RUNE 17 
[uncommon | cowuearon [ warn | 
Price 13,500 gp 


Usage etched onto armor 

An ethereal rune replicates armor on the Ethereal Plane. 

Activate *$ command; Frequency once per day; Effect You 
gain the effects of an ethereal jaunt spell. This doesn't 
require concentration and lasts for 10 minutes or until you 
choose to return to material form as a free action. 

Craft Requirements Supply a casting of 9th-level ethereal jaunt. 


RUNE 12+ 


FORTIFICATION 

Usage etched onto medium or heavy armor 
A fortification rune wards against the most deadly attacks. 
Each time you're critically hit while wearing the etched armor, 
attempt a DC 17 flat check. On a success, it becomes a normal 
hit. This property thickens the armor, increasing its Bulk by 1 
and the Strength required to reduce its penalties by 2. 


Type fortification; Level 12; Price 2,000 gp 
Type greater fortification; Level 18; Price 24,000 gp 
The flat check DC is 14. 


GLAMERED 


Price 140 gp 
Usage etched onto armor 


RUNE 5 


An anarchic rune is jagged and asymmetrical, channeling 
chaotic energy. A weapon with this rune deals an additional 
1d6 chaotic damage against lawful targets. If you are lawful, 
you are enfeebled 2 while carrying or wielding this weapon. 

When you critically succeed at a Strike with this weapon 
against a lawful creature, roll 1d6. On a 1 or 2, you deal double 
minimum damage; on a 3 or 4, double your damage normally; on 
a 5 or 6, you deal double maximum damage. 


This armor can be disguised with a mere thought. 

Activate *9 envision; Effect You change the shape and 
appearance of this armor to appear as ordinary or fine clothes 
of your imagining. The armor's statistics do not change. Only 
a creature that is benefiting from true seeing or a similar 
effect can attempt to disbelieve this illusion, with a DC of 25. 


INVISIBILITY RUNE 8+ 

[usw [ra 

Usage etched onto light armor 

Light seems to partially penetrate this armor. 

Activate *} command; Frequency once per day; Effect 
Whispering the command word, you become invisible for 
1 minute, gaining the effects of a 2nd-level invisibility spell. 


Craft Requirements You are chaotic. 


AXIOMATIC 


EVOcATION | LawruL | accu 
Price 1,400 gp 
Usage etched onto a weapon without an anarchic rune 
Complex and symmetrical, an axiomatic rune imbues a weapon 
with lawful energy. A weapon with this rune deals an additional 
1d6 lawful damage against chaotic targets. If you are chaotic, 
you are enfeebled 2 while carrying or wielding this weapon. 
When you critically succeed at an attack roll with this 
weapon against a chaotic creature, instead of rolling, count 
each weapon damage die as average damage rounded up 
(3 for d4, 4 for d6, 5 for d8, 6 for d10, 7 for d12). 


RUNE 11 


Type invisibility; Level 8; Price 500 gp 

Type greater invisibility; Level 10; Price 1,000 gp 

You can activate the armor up to three times per day. 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of invisibility. 


SHADOW 

| MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION ff 
Usage etched onto light or medium nonmetallic armor 

Armor with this rune becomes hazy black. You gain a +1 item 
bonus to Stealth checks while wearing the armor. 


RUNE 5+ 


Craft Requirements You are lawful. 


CORROSIVE 


ACID | CONJURATION | MAGICAL | 


RUNE 8+ 


Usage etched onto a weapon 


Acid sizzles across the surface of the weapon. When you hit 
with the weapon, add 1d6 acid damage to the damage dealt. 
In addition, on a critical hit, the target's armor (if any) takes 
3d6 acid damage (before applying Hardness); if the target has 
a shield raised, the shield takes this damage instead. 


Type shadow; Level 5; Price 55 gp 


Type corrosive; Level 8; Price 500 gp 


Type greater shadow; Level 9; Price 650 gp 
The item bonus is +2. 

Type major shadow; Level 17; Price 14,000 gp 
The item bonus is +3. 


RUNE 5+ 


Type greater corrosive; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp 

The acid damage dealt by this weapon ignores the target's acid 
resistance. Increase the acid damage dealt to armor or a shield 
on a critical hit to 6d6. 


DANCING RUNE 13 


This property makes armor slippery, as though it were coated 
with a thin film of oil. You gain a *1 item bonus to Acrobatics 
checks to Escape and Squeeze. 

Type slick; Level 5; Price 45 gp 

Type greater slick; Level 8; Price 450 gp 

The item bonus is *2. 

Type major slick; Level 16; Price 9,000 gp 

The item bonus is *3. 


WEAPON Property RUNES 


ANARCHIC 


Price 1,400 gp 
Usage etched onto a weapon without an axiomatic rune 


RUNE 11 


EVOCATION | MAGICAL 


| UNCOMMON 
Price 2,700 gp 
Usage etched onto a melee weapon 
A dancing weapon flies autonomously and strikes your foes. 
Activate *99 command, Interact; Effect You Release the weapon 
and it dances through the air, fighting on its own against the 
last enemy you attacked, or the nearest enemy to it if your 
target has been defeated. At the end of your turn each round, 
the weapon can Fly up to its fly Speed of 40 feet, and then 
can either Fly again or Strike one creature within its reach. 
The weapon has a space of 5 feet, but it doesn't block 
or impede enemies attempting to move though that space, 
nor does it benefit from or provide flanking. The weapon 
can't move through an enemy's space. The weapon can't use 
reactions, and its Fly actions dont trigger reactions. 
While it's activated, a dancing weapon makes Strikes with 
an attack modifier of +24 plus its item bonus to attack rolls. 


EQUIPMENT 


‘SPELLS 


HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


LOCA 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


we" 


-— APPENDI 
st 


Tra 


t) CORE RULEBOOK 4 
= er ww" 


It uses the weapons normal damage but has a +0 Strength 
modifier. The weapons abilities that automatically trigger 
on a hit or critical hit still function, but the weapon can't be 
activated or benefit from any of your abilities while dancing. 

Each round, when the weapon finishes using its actions, 
attempt a DC 6 flat check. On a failure, the activation ends. 
The weapon falls to the ground and can't dance for 10 minutes. 


DISRUPTING 

nic [croc 

Usage etched onto a melee weapon 
A disrupting weapon pulses with positive energy, dealing an 
extra 1d6 positive damage to undead. On a critical hit, the 
undead is also enfeebled 1 until the end of your next turn. 
Type disrupting; Level 5; Price 150 gp 

Type greater disrupting; Level 14 (uncommon), Price 4,300 gp 
Increase the extra damage to 2d6. On a critical hit, instead 
of being enfeebled 1, the undead creature must attempt a 
DC 34 Fortitude save with the following effects. This is an 
incapacitation effect. 

Critical Success It's enfeebled 1 until the end of your next turn. 
Success It's enfeebled 2 until the end of your next turn. 

Failure It's enfeebled 3 until the end of your next turn. 

Critical Failure It's destroyed. 


FLAMING 


| CONJURATION | FIRE | MAGICAL | 

Usage etched onto a weapon 

This weapon is empowered by flickering flame. The weapon 
deals an additional 1d6 fire damage on a successful Strike, 
plus 1d10 persistent fire damage on a critical hit. 

Type flaming; Level 8; Price 500 gp 

Type greater flaming; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp 

Increase the persistent damage on a critical hit to 2d10. Fire 
damage dealt by this weapon (including the persistent fire 
damage) ignores the target's fire resistance. 


FROST 

Usage etched onto a weapon 
This weapon is empowered with freezing ice. It deals an 
additional 1d6 cold damage on a successful Strike. On a critical 
hit, the target is also slowed 1 until the end of your next turn 
unless it succeeds at a DC 24 Fortitude save. 

Type frost; Level 8; Price 500 gp 

Type greater frost; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp 

The save DC is 34. Cold damage dealt by this weapon ignores 
the target's cold resistance. 


GHOST TOUCH 
LT 
Price 75 gp 

Usage etched onto a melee weapon 

The weapon can harm creatures without physical form. A 
ghost touch weapon is particularly effective against incorporeal 
creatures, which almost always have a specific vulnerability to 


RUNE 5* 


RUNE 8+ 


RUNE 8+ 


RUNE 4 


ghost touch weapons. Incorporeal creatures can touch, hold, 
and wield ghost touch weapons (unlike most physical objects). 


GRIEVOUS RUNE 9 

EZ 700 gp | 

Usage etched onto a weapon 

When your attack roll with this weapon is a critical hit and 

gains the critical specialization effect, you gain an additional 

benefit depending on the weapon group. 

Axe You can damage a third creature, with the same restrictions. 

Bow The Athletics check to pull the missile free is DC 20. 

Brawling The target takes a -4 circumstance penalty to its save. 

Club You can knock the target up to 15 feet away. 

Dart The base persistent bleed damage increases to 2d6. 

Flail You move the target 5 feet. You can't move it away from 
you, but you can move it in another direction of your choice. 

Hammer You can also knock the target 5 feet away from you. 

Knife The target takes a -5-foot status penalty to its Speed 
while it has the persistent bleed damage. 

Pick The extra damage from the critical specialization effect 
increases to 4 per weapon damage die. 

Polearm You can move the target up to 10 feet. 

Shield You can knock the target up to 10 feet away. 

Sling The target also takes a -10-foot status penalty to its Speed 
for 1 round if it fails the save. 

Spear The clumsy condition lasts for 2 rounds. 

Sword The target is flat-footed until the end of your next turn. 


HOLY RUNE 11 
Price 1,400 gp 


Usage etched onto a weapon without an unholy rune 

Holy weapons command powerful celestial energy. A weapon 

with this rune deals an extra 1d6 good damage against evil 

targets. If you are evil, you are enfeebled 2 while carrying or 
wielding this weapon. 

Activate 2 command; Frequency once per day; Trigger You 
critically succeed at an attack roll against an evil creature 
with the weapon; Effect You regain HP equal to double the 
evil creatures level. This is a good, positive, healing effect. 

Craft Requirements You are good. 


KEEN RUNE 13 
J uncommon | macicar | TransMutarion | 
Price 3,000 gp i (ti—~™S 


Usage etched onto a piercing or slashing melee weapon 

The edges of a keen weapon are preternaturally sharp. Attacks 
with this weapon are a critical hit on a 19 on the die as long as 
that result is a success. This property has no effect on a 19 if 
the result would be a failure. 


RETURNING 
ETTANTTM 


Price 55 gp 
Usage etched onto a thrown weapon 


RUNE3 


When you make a thrown Strike with this weapon, it flies back 
to your hand after the Strike is complete. If your hands are full 
when the weapon returns, it falls to the ground in your space. 


SHIFTING RUNE6 


| macicaL_| TRANSMUTATION | 

Price 225 gp 

Usage etched onto a melee weapon 

With a moment of manipulation, you can shift this weapon 

into a different weapon with a similar form. 

Activate *9 Interact; Effect The weapon takes the shape of 
another melee weapon that requires the same number of 
hands to wield. The weapons runes and any precious material 
its made of apply to the weapon's new shape. Any property 
runes that can’t apply to the new form are suppressed until 
the item takes a shape to which they can apply. 


SHOCK 

| ELECTRICITY | EVOCATION | MAGICAL | 
Usage etched onto a weapon 
Electric arcs crisscross this weapon, dealing an extra 1d6 
electricity damage on a hit. On a critical hit, electricity arcs out 
to deal an equal amount of electricity damage to up to two other 
creatures of your choice within 10 feet of the target. 

Type shock; Level 8; Price 500 gp 

Type greater shock; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp 

Electricity damage dealt by this weapon ignores the target's 
electricity resistance (and the other creatures' on a critical hit). 


SPEED RUNE 16 
| RARE | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 

Price 10,000 gp 

Usage etched onto a weapon 

Attacks with a speed weapon are supernaturally swift. While 
wielding a speed weapon, you gain the quickened condition, 
but you can use the additional action granted only to make a 
Strike with the etched weapon. 


SPELL-STORING 
[UNCOMMON | ABjuraTion |. Macica, | 
Price 2,700 gp 
Usage etched onto a melee weapon 
A spell-storing rune creates a reservoir of eldritch energy within 
the etched weapon. A spellcaster can spend 1 minute to cast 
a spell of 3rd level or lower into the weapon. The spell must 
have a casting of 2 actions or fewer and must be able to target 
a creature other than the caster. The spell has no immediate 
effect-it is instead stored for later. When you wield a 
spell-storing weapon, you immediately know the name and level 
of the stored spell. A spell-storing weapon found as treasure has 
a 50% chance of having a spell of the GM's choice stored in it. 
Activate *9: command; Requirements On your previous action 
this turn, you hit and damaged a creature with this weapon; 
Effect You unleash the stored spell, which uses the target of 
the triggering attack as the target of the spell. This empties 
the spell from the weapon and allows a spell to be cast into 


RUNE 8+ 


RUNE 13 


it again. If the spell requires a spell attack roll, the result of 
your attack roll with the weapon determines the degree of 
success of the spell, and if the spell requires a saving throw, 
the DC is 30. 

Activate * command; Effect Harmlessly expend the stored 
spell. This frees the weapon to have a new spell cast into it. 


THUNDERING RUNE 8+ 
| evocation | macicat | sonic f 

Usage etched onto a weapon 

This weapon lets out a peal of thunder when it hits, dealing 
an extra 1d6 sonic damage on a successful Strike. On a critical 
hit, the target has to succeed at a DC 24 Fortitude save or be 
deafened for 1 minute (or 1 hour on a critical failure). 

Type thundering; Level 8; Price 500 gp 

Type greater thundering; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp 

The save DC is 34, and the deafness is permanent. Sonic damage 
dealt by this weapon ignores the target's sonic resistance. 


UNHOLY RUNE 11 
EVIL | Evocation | MAGICAL | 

Price 1,400 gp 

Usage etched onto a weapon without a holy rune 

An unholy rune instills fiendish power into the etched weapon. 

A weapon with this rune deals an additional 1d6 evil damage 

when it hits a good target. If you are good, you are enfeebled 

2 while carrying or wielding this weapon. 

Activate 2 command; Frequency once per day; Trigger You 
critically succeed at an attack roll against a good creature with 
the weapon; Effect The target takes persistent bleed damage 
equal to 1d8 per weapon damage die of the etched weapon. 

Craft Requirements You are evil. 


VORPAL 

RARE | Evocation | MAGICAL 

Price 15,000 gp 

Usage etched onto a slashing melee weapon 

Originally created as a means of slaying the legendary 

jabberwock, vorpal weapons prove equally effective against 

nearly any foe with a head. 

Activate Ð envision (death, incapacitation); Trigger You roll a 
natural 20 on a Strike with the weapon, critically succeed, 
and deal slashing damage. The target must have a head; 
Effect The target must succeed at a DC 37 Fortitude save 
or be decapitated. This kills any creature except ones that 
dont require a head to live. For creatures with multiple 
heads, this usually kills the creature only if you sever its 
last head. 


RUNE 17 


RUNE 7 


Price 340 gp 
Usage etched onto a piercing or slashing melee weapon 


Weapons with wounding runes are said to thirst for blood. 
When you hit a creature with a wounding weapon, you deal 
an extra 1d6 persistent bleed damage. 


EQUIPMENT 


‘SPELLS 


THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


" 


98. 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


we" 


z ER ENTE ZR pE NAE en ET SS = 

| PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 

a A nn er ww" 
SHIELDS 


All magic shields are specific items with a wide variety 
of protective effects, as described in their entries. Unlike 
magic armor, magic shields can’t be etched with runes. 


PRECIOUS MATERIAL SHIELDS 


Shields made of precious materials are more expensive 
and have different durabilities. You can make bucklers 
and most shields out of any of these precious materials, 
but only darkwood can be used to make tower shields. 


ADAMANTINE SHIELD ITEM 8+ 

| UNCOMMON | 

EE varies by shield 

Adamantine shields are particularly sturdy, and when used for 

a shield bash, they are adamantine weapons. 

Type standard-grade adamantine buckler; Level 8; Price 400 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements adamantine worth at least 50 gp 

The shield has Hardness 8, HP 32, and BT 16. 

Type standard-grade adamantine shield; Level 8; Price 440; 
Bulk 1; Craft Requirements adamantine worth at least 55 gp 

The shield has Hardness 10, HP 40, and BT 20. 

Type high-grade adamantine buckler; Level 16; Price 8,000 
gp; Bulk L; Craft Requirements adamantine worth at least 
4,000 gp 

The shield has Hardness 11, HP 44, and BT 22. 


Darkwood shields are 1 Bulk lighter than normal (or light 
Bulk if their normal Bulk is 1, with no effect on a shield that 
normally has light Bulk). 

Type standard-grade darkwood buckler; Level 8; Price 400 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements darkwood worth at least 50 gp 

The shield has Hardness 3, HP 12, and BT 6. 

Type standard-grade darkwood shield; Level 8; Price 440 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements darkwood worth at least 55 gp 

The shield has Hardness 5, HP 20, and BT 10. 

Type standard-grade darkwood tower shield; Level 8; Price 560 
gp; Bulk 3; Craft Requirements darkwood worth at least 70 gp 

The shield has Hardness 5, HP 20, and BT 10. 

Type high-grade darkwood buckler; Level 16; Price 8,000 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements darkwood worth at least 4,000 gp 

The shield has Hardness 6, HP 24, and BT 12. 

Type high-grade darkwood shield; Level 16; Price 8,800 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements darkwood worth at least 4,400 gp 

The shield has Hardness 8, HP 32, and BT 16. 

Type high-grade darkwood tower shield; Level 16; Price 
11,200 gp; Bulk 3; Craft Requirements darkwood worth at 
least 5,600 gp 

The shield has Hardness 8, HP 32, and BT 16. 


DRAGONHIDE SHIELD 


ITEM 8+ 


| | 
Usage varies by shield 


Type high-grade adamantine shield; Level 16; Price 8,800 gp; 
Bulk 1; Craft Requirements adamantine worth at least 4,400 gp 
The shield has Hardness 13, HP 52, and BT 26. 


COLD IRON SHIELD 

Usage varies by shield 
Cold iron shields dont typically have an additional effect, 
though when used for a shield bash, they are cold iron weapons. 


ITEM 2+ 


Dragonhide shields are each immune to one damage type 

based on the type of dragon (see Dragonhide on page 579). 

Type standard-grade dragonhide buckler; Level 8; Price 400 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements dragonhide worth at least 50 gp 

The shield has Hardness 2, HP 8, and BT 4. 

Type standard-grade dragonhide shield; Level 8; Price 440 gp; 
Bulk 1; Craft Requirements dragonhide worth at least 55 gp 

The shield has Hardness 4, HP 16, and BT 8. 


Type low-grade cold iron buckler; Level 2; Price 30 gp; Bulk L; 
Craft Requirements cold iron worth at least 15 sp 
The shield has Hardness 3, HP 12, and BT 6. 


Type high-grade dragonhide buckler; Level 16; Price 8,000 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements dragonhide worth at least 4,000 gp 
The shield has Hardness 5, HP 20, and BT 10. 


Type low-grade cold iron shield; Level 2; Price 34 gp; Bulk 1; 
Craft Requirements cold iron worth at least 17 sp 

The shield has Hardness 5, HP 20, and BT 10. 

Type standard-grade cold iron buckler; Level 7; Price 300 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements cold iron worth at least 375 sp 

The shield has Hardness 5, HP 20, and BT 10. 


Type standard-grade cold iron shield; Level 7; Price 340 gp; 
Bulk 1; Craft Requirements cold iron worth at least 425 sp 
The shield has Hardness 7, HP 28, and BT 14. 


Type high-grade cold iron buckler; Level 15; Price 5,000 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements cold iron worth at least 2,500 gp 
The shield has Hardness 8, HP 32, and BT 16. 


Type high-grade cold iron shield; Level 15; Price 5,500 gp; 
Bulk 1; Craft Requirements cold iron worth at least 2,750 gp 
The shield has Hardness 10, HP 40, and BT 20. 


DARKWOOD SHIELD ITEM 8+ 


Usage varies by shield 


Type high-grade dragonhide shield; Level 16; Price 8,800 gp; 
Bulk 1; Craft Requirements dragonhide worth at least 4,400 gp 
The shield has Hardness 7, HP 28, and BT 14. 


MITHRAL SHIELD 
| 
Usage varies by shield 
Mithral shields are 1 Bulk lighter than normal (or light Bulk if 
their normal Bulk is 1, with no effect on a shield that normally 
has light Bulk). When used for a shield bash, they are treated 
as silver weapons. 
Type standard-grade mithral buckler; Level 8; Price 400 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements mithral worth at least 50 gp 
The shield has Hardness 3, HP 12, and BT 6. 
Type standard-grade mithral shield; Level 8; Price 440 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements mithral worth at least 55 gp 
The shield has Hardness 5, HP 20, BT 10. 
Type high-grade mithral buckler; Level 16; Price 8,000 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements mithral worth at least 4,000 gp 


ITEM 8+ 


The shield has Hardness 6, HP 24, and BT 12. 

Type high-grade mithral shield; Level 16; Price 8,800 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements at least 4,400 gp of mithral 

The shield has Hardness 8, HP 32, and BT 16. 


ORICHALCUM SHIELD 


ITEM 17+ 


Usage varies by shield 

Orichalcum shields’ time-bending properties are particularly 

useful for keeping them intact. The first time each day an 

orichalcum shield would be destroyed, it is instead left with 1 

Hit Point and the broken condition. 

Type high-grade orichalcum buckler; Level 17; Price 12,000 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements orichalcum worth at least 6,000 gp 

The shield has Hardness 14, HP 56, and BT 28. 

Type high-grade orichalcum shield; Level 17; Price 13,200 gp; 
Bulk 1; Craft Requirements orichalcum worth at least 6,600 gp 

The shield has Hardness 16, HP 64, and BT 32. 


SILVER SHIELD 


Usage varies by shield 


ITEM 2+ 


targets you instead of its normal target. If it hits, you gain 
the effects of the Shield Block reaction. 


DRAGONSLAYER'S SHIELD 


| UNCOMMON | aBjuRATION | MacicAL | 


ITEM 9 


Price 670 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 


A dragonslayer's shield is a steel shield covered with 
dragonhide from a certain type of dragon, which distinguishes 
each shield from the others. While raised, this steel shield 
(Hardness 8, HP 32, BT 16) grants its circumstance bonus to 
Reflex saves against area effects (as well as to AC, as normal). 

While you hold the shield, it also grants you a *2 circumstance 
bonus to Will saves against a dragon's frightful presence 
ability. The shield has resistance 10 against the damage type 
corresponding to the type of dragon whose hide was used in 
its creation (see dragonhide on page 579); this applies after 
reducing the damage for Hardness, so when you use Shield 
Block, the dragonslayer's shield takes 18 less damage from 
attacks of that damage type. You can use Shield Block against 
attacks that deal damage of that type. 


Silver shields don't typically have an additional effect, though 

when used for a shield bash, they are silver weapons. 

Type low-grade silver buckler; Level 2; Price 30 gp; Bulk L; 
Craft Requirements silver worth at least 15 sp 

The shield has Hardness 1, HP 4, and BT 2. 

Type low-grade silver shield; Level 2; Price 34 gp; Bulk 1; Craft 
Requirements silver worth at least 17 sp 

The shield has Hardness 3, HP 12, and BT 6. 

Type standard-grade silver buckler; Level 7; Price 300 gp; 
Bulk L; Craft Requirements silver worth at least 375 sp 

The shield has Hardness 3, HP 12, BT 6. 

Type standard-grade silver shield; Level 7; Price 340 gp; Bulk 
1; Craft Requirements silver worth at least 425 sp 

The shield has Hardness 5, HP 20, and BT 10. 

Type high-grade silver buckler; Level 15; Price 5,000 gp; Bulk 
L; Craft Requirements silver worth at least 2,500 gp 

The shield has Hardness 6, HP 24, and BT 12. 


Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include at 
least 30 gp of dragonhide. 


FLOATING SHIELD 

| UNCOMMON | macica | 

Usage strapped to 1 hand; Bulk L 

A floating shield is usually carved with wing motifs. This 

buckler (Hardness 6, HP 24, BT 12) can protect you on its own. 

Activate *9 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect The shield 
magically releases itself and floats off your arm into the 
air next to you, granting you its bonus automatically, as if 
you had Raised the Shield. Because you're not wielding the 
shield, you can't use reactions such as Shield Block with the 
shield, but you gain its benefits even when using both of your 
hands. After 1 minute, the shield drops to the ground, ending 
its floating effect. While the shield is adjacent to you, you can 
Interact to grasp it, ending its floating effect early. 


ITEM 11+ 


Type high-grade silver shield; Level 15; Price 5,500 gp; Bulk 1; 
Craft Requirements silver worth at least 2,750 gp 
The shield has Hardness 8, HP 32, and BT 16. 


SPECIFIC SHIELDS 


These shields have unique abilities that differentiate them 
from their typical counterparts. 


ARROW-CATCHING SHIELD 


| ABJURATION | MAGICAL 

Price 1,350 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

This remarkable wooden shield (Hardness 10, HP 60, BT 30) is 

carved with images of overlapping fletched arrows. 

Activate Ð Interact; Frequency once per minute; Trigger A 
ranged weapon Strike targets a creature within 15 feet of 
you when you have this shield raised, and the attacker 


has not yet rolled their attack; Effect The triggering Strike 


ITEM 11 


Type floating shield; Level 11; Price 1,250 gp 
Type greater floating shield; Level 16; Price 9,000 gp 
You can activate the shield any number of times per day. 


FORCE SHIELD ITEM 9 
UNCOMMON | Evocation | Force | maci 

Price 650 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

The edges of this elaborately engraved steel shield (Hardness 8, 

HP 32, BT 16) bear tiny glass tiles set in mosaic patterns. 

Activate *} command; Frequency once per day; Effect The 
shield surrounds you with a bubble of force that protects you 
from harm, granting you resistance 5 to physical damage for 
1 minute. The activation ends if you cease holding the shield. 


FORGE WARDEN ITEM 10 


UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | MAGICAL | 
Price 975 gp 


EQUIPMENT 


SPELLS 
HE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


" 


GAME 


98. 
CRAFTING 
| & TREASURE 


we" 


^ APF NDI 
dL 


| 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

The religious symbol of Torag, the forge god—an ornate 

hammer of dwarven construction—adorns the face of this 

reinforced steel shield (Hardness 10, HP 40, BT 20). The 
shield is a religious symbol of Torag. 
You and any adjacent allies have fire resistance 

5 while you have the shield raised. When used 

for a Shield Block, the forge warden rings 

out like the hammer strike of a blacksmith, 
and the symbol glows as if lit by the fires 
of a furnace. 

Activate €& command (fire); Trigger You use 
the forge warden to Shield Block an adjacent 
creature's attack and the shield takes damage; Effect 
The attacking creature takes 2d6 fire damage. 


NS. SPELLGUARD SHIELD 


its caster, with the effects of a 9th-level spell turning with a 
counteract modifier of *30. 

Craft Requirements Supply one casting of spell turning, and the 
initial raw materials must include at least 2,750 gp of silver. 


ITEM6 


| ABJURATION | MAGICAL J 
S  Price250gp — 
- Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This shield bears eldritch glyphs to guard 
against magic. While you have this steel shield 
(Hardness 6, HP 24, BT 12) raised, you gain its 
circumstance bonus to saving throws against spells 
that target you (as well as to AC), and you can Shield 


Block spells that target you if you have that action. 


INDESTRUCTIBLE SHIELD ITEM18  SPINED SHIELD ITEM 7 
RARE | ABJURATION | MAGICAL | evocation | macicaL | 
Price 24,000 gp Price 360 gp 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 


An indestructible shield is a high-grade adamantine shield 
(Hardness 13, HP 90) that can withstand just about any 
damage. It can be damaged only by a disintegrate spell (roll 
damage as if against a creature that failed its save) 
or by an artifact tied to destruction, such as a 
sphere of annihilation. 

Craft Requirements The raw materials must 

include at least 4,400 gp of adamantine. 


LION’S SHIELD ITEM 6 

[ cows | macca} 

Price 245 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

This steel shield (Hardness 6, HP 36, BT 18) 

is forged into the shape of a roaring lion's head. 

The lion's head functions as +1 striking shield boss 

that can't be removed from the shield. 

Activate *9 Raise a Shield; Frequency once per day; Effect 
You animate the lions head. You Raise the Shield and 
make a melee Strike with it as part of the same action. The 
shield's biting maw is a martial melee weapon that deals 
2d6 piercing damage and has the deadly 1d6 trait; it can’t 
be enhanced by runes. The shield remains animated for 1 
minute, during which time you can Strike with it each time 
you Raise the Shield, as well as with a Strike action. 


ITEM 18 


REFLECTING SHIELD 


| UNCOMMON 


ABJURATION | MAGICAL | 
Price 18,000 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 


Five jagged spines project from the surface of this steel shield 
(Hardness 6, HP 24, BT 12). The spines are +1 striking shield 
spikes. When you use the Shield Block reaction with this 
shield, the spines take the damage before the shield 
itself does. When the shield would take damage 
(after applying Hardness), one spine snaps off 
per 6 damage, reducing the damage by 6. 
The shield takes any remaining damage. 
When there are no spines left, the shield 
takes damage as normal. 
When all the spines are gone, you 
lose the ability to attack with them until 
the spines regenerate the next day. 
Activate *9 Interact; Effect You shoot 
one of the shield's spines at a target. A fired 
spine uses the spikes' statistics, but it is a martial 
ranged weapon with a range increment of 120 feet. 


STURDY SHIELD 
[huno [ war. ] 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
With a superior design and excellent craftsmanship, this steel 
shield has higher Hardness than its non-magical counterparts, 
making it harder to break and destroy. 

Type minor; Level 4; Price 100 gp 

The shield has Hardness 8, HP 64, and BT 32. 

Type lesser; Level 7; Price 360 gp 

The shield has Hardness 10, HP 80, and BT 40. 

Type moderate; Level 10; Price 1,000 gp 

The shield has Hardness 13, HP 104, and BT 52. 


ITEM 4« 


This high-grade silver buckler (Hardness 6, HP 24, BT 12) 
is polished to a mirrorlike sheen. The shield functions as a 
spellguard shield (see below) that can also reflect spells. 
Activate 2 command; Frequency once per day; Trigger 
You are targeted by a spell; Requirements The reflecting 
shield is raised; Effect You attempt to reflect the spell on 


Type greater; Level 13; Price 3,000 gp 

The shield has Hardness 15, HP 120, and BT 60. 
Type major; Level 16; Price 10,000 gp 

The shield has Hardness 17, HP 136, and BT 68. 

Type supreme; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp 

The shield has Hardness 20, HP 160, and BT 80. 


SNARES 

Snares are small annoyances and simple traps you can 
create using the Crafting skill if you have the Snare 
Crafting feat (page 266). Creating a snare requires a 
snare kit (page 291) and an amount of raw materials 
worth the amount listed in the snare’s Price entry. Unlike 
other items, found snares cannot be collected or sold in 
their complete form. Snares have the snare trait. 


CRAFTING SNARES 


A snare is built within a single 5-foot square. Once 
constructed, it can’t be moved without destroying 
(and often triggering) the snare. 

You must have the Snare Crafting feat to create snares. 
You can spend 1 minute to Craft a snare at its listed Price. 
If you want to Craft a snare at a discount, you must 
spend downtime as described in the Craft activity. 
Some snares have additional requirements beyond 
those stated in the Craft activity; these snares list 
their requirements in a Craft Requirements entry. 


DETECTING SNARES 


Creatures can detect snares as they would any 
trap or hazard (as described on page 520), using 
the creator’s Crafting DC as the snare’s Stealth 
DC. As you become better at creating snares, 
your snares become harder to detect by those 
with lesser ability. If you are an expert in 
Crafting, only a creature that is trained in 
Perception can find your snares; if you are 
a master in Crafting, only a creature that is an 
expert in Perception can find your snares; and if you are 
legendary in Crafting, only a creature that is a master in 
Perception can find your snares. 

If your proficiency rank is expert or better in Crafting, 
only creatures actively searching can find your snares. 


TRIGGERING SNARES 


Unless stated otherwise in a snare’s description, when a 
Small or larger creature enters a snare’s square, the snare’s 
effect occurs and then the snare is destroyed. 


DISABLING SNARES 


Once a creature discovers a snare, it can disable it much like 
it can other physical traps, using the Disable a Device action 
of the Thievery skill and using the Crafting DC of the snare’s 
creator as the DC. As you become better at creating snares, 
your snares become harder to disable by those with lesser 
ability. If you are an expert in Crafting, only a creature that 
is trained in Thievery can disable them; if you are a master 
in Crafting, only a creature that is an expert in Thievery can 
disable them; and if you are legendary in Crafting, only a 
creature that is a master in Thievery can disable them. 

You can automatically disarm a snare that you 
personally Crafted without triggering it by spending an 
Interact action while adjacent to the snare. 


ALARM SNARE 

| auoirory | consumas.e | mecnanicat | snare | Trap | 
Price 3 gp 

You create an alarm snare by rigging one or more noisy 
objects to a trip wire or pressure plate. When you create an 
alarm snare, you designate a range between 100 to 500 feet 
at which it can be heard. When a Small or larger creature 
enters the square, the snare makes a noise loud enough that 


it can be heard by all creatures in the range you designated. 


BITING SNARE SNARE 4 
CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | SNARE 
Price 15 gp 
The snare's jaws shut on the leg of a creature that steps on 
it. The snare deals 5d6 piercing damage to the first creature 
that enters its square; that creature must attempt a DC 18 
Reflex save. 
Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 
Success The creature takes half damage. 
Failure The creature takes full damage. 
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage 
and takes a -10-foot status penalty to its Speed 
until it recovers at least 1 Hit Point. 


BLEEDING SPINES SNARE 


Í CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | SNARE | TRAP 


SNARE 1 


[me] 


SNARE 12 


Price 320 gp 
When a creature enters the square, spines 
covered in numerous jagged thorns protrude 

out to stab it, dealing 8d8 piercing damage and 2d8 

persistent bleed damage. The creature must attempt a DC 31 

basic Reflex saving throw. After the initial trigger, the spines 

retract and protrude again repeatedly for 1 minute, forcing any 
creature that enters the space or ends its turn in the space to 
attempt a Reflex save against the spines' damage. 


BOMB SNARE 


SNARE 8 


| consumasue | mecranicaL | snare | TRAP 


Price 75 gp 


You create a snare that catalyzes three 3rd-level moderate 

alchemical bombs of the same type to explode when a creature 

enters the snare’s square. The target and all creatures in adjacent 

squares must attempt a DC 26 Reflex save, as the snare deals 

damage equal to three times the direct hit damage from one 

of the component bombs (for example, 6d6 electricity damage 

from bottled lightning) with no splash damage or other effects. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage and no other effects. 

Failure The creature takes full damage. It also takes all other 
effects of a direct hit from one of the component bombs 
(such as flat-footed from bottled lightning or persistent 
damage from an acid flask). 

Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, plus all 
other effects of a direct hit (as failure). 

Craft Requirements Supply three of the same damaging 
3rd-level moderate alchemical bomb. 


EQUIPMENT 
E 


SPELLS 
GT 


M 
. THE ABE DF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


we 5.0. 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


SNARE 1 


Price 3 gp 


This snare consists of a hidden canister of caltrops (page 287) 
attached to a trip wire. When the snare is triggered, it flings the 
caltrops into either the snare’s square or a square adjacent to 
the snare. You choose which square when you set up the snare. 

If the caltrops scatter into the same square as a creature, 
that creature must attempt the Acrobatics check immediately. 
Craft Requirements Supply a container of caltrops. 


FLYING BLADE WHEEL SNARE 


| CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | SNARE | TRAP | 

Price 10,000 gp 

When a creature enters the square, a deadly flying wheel of 
spinning blades launches at it, making a Strike with an attack 
modifier of +33 and dealing 8d8 slashing damage. Once on 
each of your turns, you can use an Interact action within 120 
feet of the wheel to cause it to Fly up to 60 feet toward the 
creature it's chasing and make another Strike if it's within 5 
feet of its target after it moves. After 1 minute, the spinning 
ceases and the wheel falls to the ground. Creatures can 
destroy the wheel to stop it (AC 37, Fort +29, Ref +20, HP 
200, Hardness 10, object immunities). 


GRASPING SNARE 
UNCOMMON | CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | SNARE | TRAP 
Price 75 gp 
You rig vines and ropes to hold a creature in place. The first 
creature to enter the square must attempt a DC 26 Reflex 
save, with the following effects. 
Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 
Success The creature takes a -5-foot status penalty to its 
Speed for 1 minute or until it Escapes (DC 26). 
Failure The creature is immobilized for 1 round, then takes a 


SNARE 20 


SNARE 8 


-5-foot status penalty to its Speed for 1 minute. Both effects 
end early if it Escapes (DC 26) 

Critical Failure The creature is immobilized for 1 minute or until 
it Escapes (DC 26). 


HAIL OF ARROWS SNARE SNARE 16 


| CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | SNARE | TRAP | 
Price 1,500 gp 


When a creature enters the snare's square, it releases hundreds 
upon hundreds of carefully prepared arrows, blanketing a 
20-foot radius around the snare's square with massive arrow 
fire that deals 18d6 piercing damage. Creatures in the area 
must attempt a DC 37 basic Reflex saving throw. 


HAMPERING SNARE SNARE 1 
| CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | SNARE | TRAP | 
Price 3 gp - 


You arrange brambles, wires, sticky goo, or other materials 
to interfere with a creatures movement. The square with 
this snare, as well as three adjacent squares (to form a 
10-foot-by-10-foot area), become difficult terrain when the first 
creature enters the snare's square. The difficult terrain affects 
the creatures movement right away, including its movement 
into the triggering square, and it lasts for 1d4 rounds after the 
snare is triggered. A creature can use an Interact action to 
clear the difficult terrain out of a single square early. 


HOBBLING SNARE SNARE4 


UNCOMMON | CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL 


Price 15 gp 


SNARE | TRAP 


You rig vines, ropes, or wires to cinch tight around a creature 

that triggers this snare. The first creature to enter the square 

must attempt a DC 20 Reflex save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes a -5-foot status penalty to its 
Speed for 1 minute or until it Escapes (DC 18). 

Failure As success, but the penalty is -10 feet. 

Critical Failure As success, but the penalty is -20 feet. 


INSTANT EVISCERATION SNARE SNARE 20 


Price 10,000 gp 


When a creature enters the snare's square, the snare releases 
an unbelievable arsenal of blades, dealing 24d8 piercing 
damage (DC 45 basic Reflex). 


MARKING SNARE SNARE 1 


Price 3 gp 


This snare is often used to mark intruders for later tracking or 
identification. When you create this snare, you must decide 
whether to make it a dye or a scent marker. Either type of marking 
grants a +2 circumstance bonus to Track the creature for up to 
24 hours or until the dye or scent is washed off (requiring at least 
a gallon of water and 10 minutes of scrubbing). A creature that 
enters a square of the snare must attempt a DC 17 Reflex save. 


Success The creature is unaffected. 

Failure The snare marks the creature. 

Critical Failure The snare marks the creature, and the creature 
is blinded until the end of its next turn. 


OMNIDIRECTIONAL SPEAR SNARE 


SNARE 16 


| CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | SNARE | TRAP 
Price 1,500 gp 


As soon as a creature enters the snare’s square, the snare 
unleashes wickedly powerful spears at the creature from all 
directions, dealing 19d8 piercing damage (DC 37 basic Reflex). 


SCYTHING BLADE SNARE SNARE 12 


Critical Failure As failure, and the creature is blinded until the 
end of its next turn. 


STRIKING SNARE 

| | mecuanicaL | 
Price 75 gp 
You affix a trip line or other trigger to a group of either stones 
or wooden stakes to strike a creature that enters the snare's 
square. The creature must attempt a DC 26 basic Reflex saving 
throw. If you choose stones, the snare deals 9d8 bludgeoning 


damage; if you choose spikes, it deals 9d8 piercing damage. 


STUNNING SNARE SNARE 12 


SNARE 8 


| CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | SNARE | 


| AABLE | MECH | SNARE | TRAP 
Price 320 gp 


CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | snare | TRAP 
Price 320 gp 


This snare sends a powerful series of scything blades to slice 
through a creature entering the snare's square, dealing 14d8 
slashing damage (DC 31 basic Reflex). 


SIGNALING SNARE 

| CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | SNARE | TRAP | 
Price 3 gp 

A subtle snare used in hunting or tracking, a signaling snare 
often consists of carefully prepared earth, piled sand or 
stones, specific arrangements of vegetation, and so forth. 
When a creature enters a square of a signaling snare, nothing 
happens to the creature, but instead it causes a small, 
unobtrusive disruption to the terrain that allows the snare's 
creator or another creature who knows what to look for to 
determine whether a creature of the appropriate size entered 
the square. 


SPIKE SNARE 

| CONSUMABLE [| MECHANICAL | SNARE | TRAP | 
Price 3 gp 

This basic snare consists of hidden spikes that rely on a 
creatures momentum to lacerate or potentially impale it as it 
enters the snare's square, dealing 2d8 piercing damage. The 
creature must attempt a DC 17 basic Reflex saving throw. 


STALKER BANE SNARE SNARE 4 


[UNCOMMON | consumasLe | wechanicat | snare | TRAP f 

Price 15 gp 

This snare explodes in a burst of cloying powder that can cling 

to a creature stepping into its square. A creature that enters 

the square of a stalker bane snare must attempt a DC 20 

Reflex save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success Powder sticks to the target, causing it to leave behind 
telltale footprints. Being invisible makes the target hidden, 
rather than undetected, to creatures that could see it if it 
weren't invisible. 

Failure Powder clumps on the target, constantly flaking away. 
Being invisible makes the target concealed, rather than 
hidden or undetected, to creatures that could see it if it 
weren't invisible. 


SNARE 1 


SNARE 1 


You rig a snare to disorient a creature with a quick bash, 

leaving it with little ability to defend itself. The trap deals 6d6 

bludgeoning damage to the first creature to enter its square; 

that creature must attempt a DC 31 Reflex save. 

Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature takes half damage and is flat-footed for 1 
round and stunned 1. 

Failure The creature takes full damage and is flat-footed for 1 
round and stunned 2. 

Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is 
flat-footed for 1 minute and stunned 4. 


TRIP SNARE 

CONSUMABLE | MECHANICAL | | TRAP 
Price 15 gp 
You set a cunning wire to trip a creature. A Medium or smaller 
creature that enters this snares square must attempt a DC 20 
Reflex save. 

If you want to create a trip snare to trip a larger creature, 
you must create a group of contiguous snares of a length equal 
to the edge of that larger creatures space, and the creature 
must be moving such that it moves into the full set of snares. 
For example, three trip snares in a 15-foot-line can trip a Huge 
creature coming down a corridor into the line of snares. 
Critical Success The creature is unaffected. 

Success The creature is flat-footed until the start of its next turn. 

Failure The creature falls prone. 

Critical Failure The creature falls prone and takes 1d6 
bludgeoning damage. 


WARNING SNARE 

Price 15 gp 

Using materials specific to the area, you connect a 
sound-making component to a trip wire or a pressure plate. 
This snare is like an alarm snare, but its subtle sound blends 
into ambient noise. You can detect this sound as long as you're 
within 1,000 feet of the snare and arent prevented from 
hearing it. Other creatures in that area who are searching 
might notice the sound if their Perception check result meets 
or exceeds your Craft DC. 


SNARE 4 


SNARE 4 


THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


2e. 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


AATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK J 
STAVES 


A magical staff is an indispensable accessory for an elite 
spellcaster. A staff is tied to one person during a preparation 
process, after which the preparer, and only the preparer, can 
harness the staff to cast a variety of spells throughout the 
day. The spells that can be cast from a staff are listed in 
bullet points organized by level under each version of the 
staff. Many staves can be found in multiple versions, with 
more powerful versions that contain more spells—such a 
staff always contains the spells of all lower-level versions, 
in addition to the spells listed in its own entry. All magical 
staves have the staff trait. 


CASTING SPELLS FROM A STAFF 


A staff gains charges when someone prepares it for the day. 
The person who prepared a staff can expend the charges to 
cast spells from it. You can Cast a Spell from a staff only if 
you have that spell on your spell list, are able to cast spells 
of the appropriate level, and expend a number of charges 
from the staff equal to the spell’s level. Casting a Spell from 
a staff requires holding the staff (typically in one hand) and 
Activating the staff by Casting the Spell, which takes the 
spell’s normal number of actions. 

Use your spell attack roll and spell DC when Casting a 
Spell from a staff. The spell gains the appropriate trait for 
your magical tradition (arcane, divine, occult, or primal) 
and can be affected by any modifications you can 
normally make when casting spells, such as metamagic 
feats. You must provide any material components, cost, 
or focus required by the spell, or you fail to cast it. 

Prepared spellcasters and spontaneous spellcasters 
each have a unique way of altering how their staves gain 
charges and the ways they can be used (see the Prepared 
Spellcasters and Spontaneous Spellcasters sections below). 


Castine CANTRIPS FROM A STAFF 

If a staff contains a cantrip, you can cast that cantrip using 
the staff without expending any charges. The cantrip’s 
level is heightened to the same level as cantrips you cast. 


PREPARING A STAFF 


During your daily preparations, you can prepare a staff to 
add charges to it for free. When you do so, that staff gains 
a number of charges equal to the level of your highest-level 
spell slot. You don’t need to expend any spells to add charges 
in this way. No one can prepare more than one staff per day, 
nor cana staff be prepared by more than one person per day. 
If the charges aren’t used within 24 hours, they’re lost, and 
preparing the staff anew removes any charges previously 
stored in it. You can prepare a staff only if you have at least 
one of the staff’s spells on your spell list. 


PREPARED SPELLCASTERS 

A prepared spellcaster—such as a cleric, druid, or wizard— 
can place some of their own magic in a staff to increase its 
number of charges. When a prepared spellcaster prepares a 


staff, they can expend a spell slot to add a number of charges 
to the staff equal to the level of the spell. They can’t expend 
more than one spell in this way each day. For example, if 
Ezren can cast 3rd-level spells and prepared a staff, the staff 
would gain 3 charges, but Ezren could increase this to 6 
by expending one of his 3rd-level spells, 5 by expending a 
2nd-level spell, or 4 by expending a 1st-level spell. 


SPONTANEOUS SPELLCASTERS 

A spontaneous spellcaster, such as a bard or sorcerer, can 
reduce the number of charges it takes to Activate a staff by 
supplementing with their own energy. When a spontaneous 
spellcaster Activates a staff, they can expend 1 charge from 
the staff and one of their spell slots to cast a spell from the 
staff of the same level (or lower) as the expended spell slot. 
This doesn’t change the number of actions it takes to cast 
the spell. For example, if Seoni can cast 3rd-level spells and 
prepared a staff, the staff would gain 3 charges. She could 
expend 1 charge and one of her 3rd-level spell slots to cast 
a 3rd-level spell from the staff, or 1 charge and one of her 
2nd-level spell slots to cast a 2nd-level spell from the staff. 
She could still expend 3 charges from the staff to cast a 
3rd-level spell from it without using any of her own slots, 
just like any other spellcaster. 


ATTACKING WITH A STAFF 


Staves are also staff weapons (page 280). They can be 
etched with fundamental runes but not property runes. 
This doesn’t alter any of their spellcasting abilities. 


ANIMAL STAFF 
[mmm [ wen [ s ] 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This staff is topped with carved animal and monster heads. 
While wielding the staff, you gain a *2 circumstance bonus to 
Nature checks to identify animals. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 
from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
Type animal staff, Level 4; Price 90 gp 
* Cantrip know direction 
* 1st magic fang, summon animal 
Type greater animal staff, Level 8; Price 460 gp 
¢ 2ndanimal messenger, speak with animals, summon animal 
* 3rd animal form, summon animal 
Type major animal staff; Level 12; Price 1,900 gp 
* 4th summon animal 
¢ 5th animal form, moon frenzy, summon animal 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
all listed spells. 


MENTALIST'S STAFF 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This polished wooden staff bears a swirling motif reminiscent 
of the folds of a brain. While wielding the staff, you gain a +2 
circumstance bonus to checks to identify mental magic. 


ITEM 4« 


ITEM 4« 


Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 
from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 

Type mentalist's staff; Level 4; Price 90 gp 
* Cantrip daze 
* 1st mindlink, phantom pain 

Type greater mentalist's staff; Level 8; Price 450 gp 
* 2ndparanoia 
* 3rdhypercognition, phantom pain 

Type major mentalist's staff, Level 12; Price 1,800 gp 
* Ath modify memory, telepathy 
¢ 5th phantom pain, synaptic pulse, synesthesia 


Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
all listed spells. 


STAFF OF DIVINATION 

Í oivination | MacicaL | STAFF | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

Semiprecious gemstones emerge, seemingly at random, from the 
surface of this gnarled wooden staff. While wielding it, you gain 
a +2 circumstance bonus to checks to identify divination magic. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 

from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 


ITEM 6+ 


Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
all listed spells. 


STAFF OF ABJURATION 


| ABJURATION | MAGICAL | STAFF | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This intricately carved wooden staff is warm to the touch and 
thrums with inner energy. While wielding the staff, you gain a 
+2 circumstance bonus to checks to identify abjuration magic. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 
from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
Type staff of abjuration; Level 6; Price 230 gp 
* Cantrip shield 
* 1st alarm, feather fall 
¢ 2nd dispel magic, endure elements, resist energy 
Type greater staff of abjuration; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
* 3rdalarm, glyph of warding 
* Athdimensional anchor, dispel magic, resist energy 
Type major staff of abjuration; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp 
e 5th banishment, endure elements 
e 6thdispel magic, repulsion 


ITEM 6+ 


Type staff of divination; Level 6; Price 230 gp 

* Cantrip detect magic 

* 1st true strike 

* 2nd comprehend language, darkvision, see invisibility 
Type greater staff of divination; Level 10; Price 900 gp 

* 3rd clairaudience, darkvision 

* Athclairvoyance, comprehend language, telepathy 
Type major staff of divination; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp 

* 5th prying eye, sending 

* 6thtelepathy, true seeing 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 

all listed spells. 


STAFF OF ENCHANTMENT 
[umen | wae. fs 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
A mesmerizing gemstone caps the head of this handsomely 
crafted wooden staff. While wielding the staff, you gain a +2 
circumstance bonus to checks to identify enchantment magic. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 

from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 


EQUIPMENT 


‘SPELLS 


HE AGE OF 
. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


ITEM 6+ 


LOCA 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


we" 


Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
all listed spells. 


STAFF OF CONJURATION 
CONJURATION | MAGICAL | STAFF | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This ash staff is decorated with animals; wielding it, you gain a 
*2 circumstance bonus to checks to identify conjuration magic. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 
from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
Type staff of conjuration; Level 6; Price 230 gp 
* Cantrip tanglefoot 
e {st summon construct, unseen servant 
e 2ndobscuring mist, phantom steed, summon construct, 
summon elemental 
Type greater staff of conjuration; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
e 3rdstinking cloud, summon construct, summon elemental 
* 4th creation, phantom steed, summon construct, 
summon elemental 
Type major staff of conjuration; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp 
* 5th black tentacles, summon construct, summon 
elemental 
* 6th phantom steed, summon construct, summon 
elemental 


ITEM 6+ 


Type staff of enchantment; Level 6; Price 230 gp 
* Cantrip daze 
e {st charm, command 
¢ 2nd hideous laughter, touch of idiocy 
Type greater staff of enchantment; Level 10; Price 
900 gp 
* 3rd paralyze 
* 4th charm, confusion, suggestion 
Type major staff of enchantment; Level 14 (uncommon); 
Price 4,000 gp 
* 5th command, crushing despair 
* 6th dominate, feeblemind 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
all listed spells. 


STAFF OF EVOCATION 


| Evocation | macica | starr | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

This staff is tapered at the base and carved into a gem- 
studded twist at the top. While wielding the staff, you gain a 
+2 circumstance bonus to checks to identify evocation magic. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 

from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
Type staff of evocation; Level 6; Price 230 gp 


ITEM 6+ 


* Cantrip ray of frost 
* 1st magic missile, shocking grasp 
¢ 2nd acid arrow, glitterdust 

Type greater staff of evocation; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
* 3rd lightning bolt, magic missile 
* Ath fireball, weapon storm 

Type major staff of evocation; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp 
* 5thcone of cold, magic missile 
* 6thchain lightning, wall of force 

Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels 
of all listed spells. 


STAFF OF FIRE 
| evocation | macicaL | starr | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This staff resembles a blackened and burned length of ashen 
wood. It smells faintly of soot and glows as if lit by embers. 
You can use an Interact action to touch the tip of this staff to a 
torch, tinder, or a flammable substance to ignite a flame. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 
from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
Type staff of fire; Level 3; Price 60 gp 
* Cantrip produce flame 
* {st burning hands 
Type greater staff of fire; Level 8; Price 450 gp 
* 2ndburning hands, flaming sphere 
* 3rdflaming sphere, fireball 
Type major staff of fire; Level 12; Price 1,800 gp 
* Ath fire shield, fireball, wall of fire 
* 5th fireball, wall of fire 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
all listed spells. 


STAFF OF HEALING 
| Masica | necromancy stare 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
Made of smooth, white wood, this staff is capped at 
each end with a golden cross adorned with a multitude of 
ruby cabochons. A staff of healing grants an item bonus to 
the Hit Points you restore anytime you cast the heal spell 
using your own spell slots or using charges from the staff. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 
from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
Type staff of healing; Level 4; Price 90 gp 
The item bonus granted to heal spells is +1. 
* Cantrip stabilize 
* 1st heal 
Type greater staff of healing; Level 8; Price 470 gp 
The item bonus granted to heal spells is +2. 
e 2nd heal, restoration, restore senses 
* 3rd heal, remove disease 
Type major staff of healing; Level 12; Price 1,800 gp 
The item bonus granted to heal spells is *3. 
* 4thhedl, restoration 
* 5th breath of life, heal, remove disease 
Type true staff of healing; Level 16; Price 9,200 gp 


ITEM 3+ 


ITEM4+ efe 


The item bonus granted to heal spells is +4. 
e 6th heal, restoration, restore senses 
° 7thheal, regenerate, remove disease 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels 
of all listed spells. 


STAFF OF ILLUMINATION 
Price 425 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This simple iron staff is capped with a faceted, clear gem. 
Activate *9 Interact; Effect The gem at the top of the staff 
glows as a torch, shedding bright light in a 20-foot radius 
(and dim light to the next 20 feet) for 10 minutes. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 
from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
* Cantrip light 
* 2ndcontinual flame 
¢ 3rdcontinual flame, searing light 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels 
of all listed spells. 


STAFF OF ILLUSION 
Fusion macica | sar] 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This ornately designed metal staff shines with precious inlays 
of gold. When you Cast a Spell from the staff, the illusory 
image of something you desire flashes across its surface. 
While wielding the staff, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to 
checks to identify illusion magic. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 
from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
Type staff of illusion; Level 6; Price 230 gp 
Cantrip ghost sound 
e 1st illusory disguise, illusory object 
¢ 2nd illusory creature, item facade, ventriloquism 
Type greater staff of illusion; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
e 3rd illusory disguise, item facade 
¢ Athillusory creature, veil 
Type major staff of illusion; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp 
e bthillusory scene, veil 
e 6th hallucination, mislead 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
} all listed spells. 


STAFF OF NECROMANCY 
| 
| Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

This twisted and grim-looking staff is adorned with hideous 

skull and bone motifs. While wielding the staff, you gain a +2 

circumstance bonus to checks to identify necromancy magic. 

Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 

from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 

Type staff of necromancy; Level 6; Price 230 gp 
* Cantrip chill touch 
* 1st grim tendrils, ray of enfeeblement 


ITEM8 


ITEM 6+ 


ITEM 6+ 


* 2nd deafness, gentle repose 
Type greater staff of necromancy; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
e 3rd blindness, vampiric touch 
* Athgrim tendrils, vampiric touch 
Type major staff of necromancy; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp 
¢ 5thcloudkill, gentle repose 
* 6thgrim tendrils, vampiric exsanguination 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
all listed spells. 


STAFF OF POWER 
| RARE | Evocation | MAGICAL | 


Price 10,000 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 


ITEM 16 


STAFF | 


CE n Se aii cie 


M 
d 
— 


Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 
from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
* Cantrip detect magic, light, mage hand, telekinetic 
projectile 
e jstlock 
e 2nd enlarge, glitterdust, 
telekinetic maneuver, web 
* Qrddispel magic, fireball, lightning bolt 
* Ath invisibility, enlarge, fireball, wall of fire, web 
* 5thcone of cold, passwall, telekinetic haul 
* 6thdisintegrate, dispel magic, fireball, lightning bolt 
* 7thcone of cold, passwall, plane shift, wall of fire | 
¢ 8thfireball, mage armor 
* 9th dispel magic, meteor swarm, summon dragon 


invisibility, knock, 


EQUIPMENT 


Z 


This staff of magically hardened wood is topped with a silver 
sculpture depicting magical runic symbols. When used as a 
weapon, a staff of power is a *2 greater striking staff. 

Voluntarily destroying a staff of power unleashes an 
incredible blast of energy. When wielding the staff, you can 
Interact to break it. This releases a 30-foot-burst magical 
explosion centered on the staff. This deals 2d8 force damage 
per charge remaining in the staff (DC 40 basic Reflex save). 
You automatically critically fail your save. A creature 
reduced to O Hit Points by this damage dies instantly; 
this is a death effect. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of 

charges from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 

* 1st ray of enfeeblement 

e 2ndcontinual flame 

e 3rd levitate 

* Athglobe of invulnerability, paralyze 

* 5th magic missile 

e 6th wall of force 

* 7thcone of cold, fireball, lightning bolt 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 

all listed spells. 


STAFF OF THE MAGI 
| RARE | Evocation | MAGICAL | STAFF 
Price 90,000 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
Sigils and runes of ancient and powerful magic cover the iron 
cladding on this long wooden staff. A staff of the magi is a 
+3 major striking staff, and when wielding it you gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to saving throws against spells. 
Voluntarily destroying a staff of the magi unleashes a 
truly devastating wave of arcane energy that surges out, 
dissipating with distance. When wielding the staff, you can 
break it using an Interact action. This releases a 30-foot-burst 
magical explosion centered on the staff. This deals 2d10 force 
damage per charge remaining in the staff (DC 40 basic Reflex 
save), You automatically critically fail your save. The explosion 
continues to echo beyond the initial blast zone, dealing half as 
much damage to creatures beyond 30 feet but within a 60- 
foot burst. A creature reduced to O Hit Points by this damage 
dies instantly; this is a death effect. 


ITEM 20 


Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 


SPELLS 


all listed spells. F. 
STAFF OF TRANSMUTATION ITEM6+ | THE AGE OF 
Í MAGICAL | STAFF | TRANSMUTATION . LOST OMENS 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 | 
A glass orb atop this metal staff contains fine, undulating sand. PLAYING THE 
While wielding the staff, you gain a *2 circumstance bonus to 
checks to identify transmutation magic. 
f". Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of 
© charges from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
Type staff of transmutation; Level 6; Price 230 gp 
e Cantrip sigil 
* 1st fleet step, jump 
¢ 2ndenlarge, humanoid form 
Type greater staff of transmutation; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
* 3rd feet to fins, jump 
* 4th gaseous form, shape stone 
Type major staff of transmutation; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp 
e 5th humanoid transformation 
¢ 6th baleful polymorph, dragon form, flesh to stone 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
all listed spells. 


VERDANT STAFF 


pem 2e. 
| CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


we" 


ITEM 6+ 


| acicat | sTaFF 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 


This oak branch grows leaves in spring that change color in 
autumn and shed in winter. While wielding it, you gain a +2 
circumstance bonus to checks to identify plants and fungi. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges 

from the staff to cast a spell from its list. 
Type verdant staff; Level 6; Price 225 gp 

* Cantrip tanglefoot 

e {st shillelagh (can target the verdant staff) 

* 2nd barkskin, entangle, shape wood, tree shape 
Type greater verdant staff; Level 12; Price 1,750 gp 

* 3rd wall of thorns 

* Ath barkskin, speak with plants 

e 5th plant form, wall of thorns 
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of 
all listed spells. 


um Ret PRINT — DONT en 


YYATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 
2 A m c c r — d | 


STRUCTURES 


These items create structures of significant size, typically 
by growing from their more manageable, normal forms. 
All these items have the structure trait, described in the 
sidebar below. 


EXPLORER'S YURT ITEM 10 
mo 
Price 880 gp 


Bulk 1 (when not activated) 

Before activation, this item appears to be nothing more than a 

simple rolled-up tent, barely large enough to fit four Medium 

creatures. Despite attempts to clean it, the tent is perpetually 
smudged with dirt in various places. 

Activate 10 minutes (Interact); Frequency once per day; Effect 
The rolled-up tent expands into a spacious yurt complete 
with a fire pit, 10 bedrolls, various cooking utensils, and 
basic food and water. 

The yurt can house and feed you and up to nine other 
Medium creatures that eat roughly as much as a human 
does; they need not attempt a Survival check to Subsist 
when you use the yurt. Fires and light inside the yurt do 
not extend illumination into the area surrounding the yurt, 
making it harder to spot from a distance. 

A large loop of red cloth hangs from one wall. If this loop 
is pulled, which takes an Interact action, the entire yurt 
immediately folds back up into its deactivated form, ready 
for further travel. 


THE STRUCTURE TRAIT 

An item with the structure trait creates a magical building 
or other structure when activated. The item must be 
activated on a plot of land free of other structures. 
The structure adapts to the natural terrain, adopting 
the structural requirements for being built there. The 
structure adjusts around small features such as ponds or 
spires of rock, but it can't be created on water or other 
nonsolid surfaces. If activated on snow, sand dunes, or 
other soft surfaces with a solid surface underneath, the 
structure's foundation (if any) reaches the solid ground. If 
an item with this trait is activated on a solid but unstable 
surface, such as a swamp or an area plagued by tremors, 
roll a DC 3 flat check each day; on a failure, the structure 
begins to sink or collapse. 

The structure doesn't harm creatures within the area 
when it appears, and it can't be created within a crowd or 
in a densely populated area. Any creature inadvertently 
caught inside the structure when the item is activated 
ends up unharmed inside the complete structure and 
always has a clear path of escape. A creature inside the 
structure when the activation ends isn't harmed, and it 
lands harmlessly on the ground if it was on an upper level 
of the structure. 


INSTANT FORTRESS ITEM 16 
m 
Price 9,300 gp 


Bulk L (when not activated) 

This metal cube is small enough to fit in your palm. Close 

inspection reveals fine lines in the dark gray metal, as though 

the cube were folded thousands of times. 

Activate *99* command, Interact; Effect You toss the 
cube on the ground, and it immediately unfolds into an 
adamantine fortress. The fortress is 20 feet square and 30 
feet high, with adamantine stairs leading up to three sets of 
battlements at heights of 10 feet and 20 feet and at the top. 
Arrow slits along the lower battlements and crenelations 
at the top provide standard cover to anyone within the 
fortress. There's no roof, leaving an open, 10-foot-square 
vertical shaft through the center of the structure. 

As a magical structure, the fortress has the structure 
trait. Because it expands outward, the fortress can't catch 
creatures inside it as a magical structure normally does. 
Instead, it pushes those creatures back. It can’t push 
a creature into a surface or hazard this way, and stops 
expanding if that would happen. 

The fortress has a single door in the center of one wall on 
the ground level, and the door appears directly in front of 
you when you activate the fortress. Provided you're within 
100 feet of the door, you can cause the door to open or slam 
shut and lock by spending a single action to issue a verbal 
command, which has the auditory trait. The DC to Force 
Open the door or Pick its Lock is 40. 

You can instantly return the instant fortress to its cube 
form by spending a single action to issue a verbal command, 
which has the auditory trait. Once deactivated, the fortress 
can't be activated again for 4 hours. 

If the fortress becomes damaged, it can be repaired only with 
aremake spell or by someone who is legendary at Crafting. 


POCKET STAGE ITEM 5 
[ conuranon | macica sucre 
Price 138 gp 


Bulk L (when not activated) 

This item appears to be a miniature replica of a theater. 

It includes a small pocket full of minute set dressing and 

costumed paper dolls. 

Activate 1 minute (command, envision, Interact); Effect You 
place the miniature theater on the ground, filling it with any 
set dressing and up to six figures you choose. Then, you tap 
a rhythm on the miniature, causing it to grow into a modest 
stage 20 feet wide and 15 feet deep. It's dressed with the 
decorations you selected, and simple mannequins wear the 
costumes you chose. A wooden proscenium arch frames the 
stage, and simple curtains along the sides conceal the wings. 
As a magical structure, the stage has the structure trait. 

All the stage's set dressing is illusory and disappears if 
taken more than 20 feet from the stage. The costumes are 
physical but with illusory embellishments that fade at the 
same range, revealing only plain, white smocks. 


WANDS 
Short, slender items typically made of wood, wands let you 
cast a specific spell without expending a spell slot. They can 
be used once per day, but can be overcharged to attempt 
to cast them again at great risk. Each wand holds a spell 
of a certain level, determined when the wand is created. 
Cantrips, focus spells, and rituals can’t be placed in wands. 

If you find a wand, you can try to deduce what spell 


is in it. If the spell is a common spell from your spell 
list or is a spell you know, you can use a single Recall 
Knowledge action and automatically succeed. If it's 
not, you must Identify Magic (page 238). 


CASTING SPELLS FROM A WAND 


A wand contains a spell that can be cast once per day. 
Casting a spell from a wand requires holding the wand 
in one hand and activating the item with a Cast a Spell 
activity using the normal number of actions for the spell. 

To cast a spell from a wand, it must be on your spell 
list. Because you're the one casting the spell, use your spell 
attack roll and spell DC. The spell is of your tradition. 

A. spell cast from a wand doesn't require physical 
but you must replace any 
material component normally required to cast the spell 


material components, 


with a somatic component. If the spell requires a focus, 
you must still have that focus to cast the spell from a 
wand, and if the spell has a cost, you must still pay that 
cost to cast the spell from a wand. 


QveRcHARGING A WAND 
After the spell is cast from the wand for the day, you can 
cast it one more time—overcharging the wand at the 
risk of destroying it. Cast the Spell again, then roll a 
DC 10 flat check. On a success, the wand is broken. 
On a failure, the wand is destroyed. If anyone tries to 
overcharge a wand when it's already been overcharged 
that day, the wand is automatically destroyed (even if it 
had been repaired) and no spell is cast. 


WAND STATISTICS 


A wand's base statistics are the same unless noted 
otherwise in a special wand. It has light Bulk, and must 
be held in one hand to be activated. Each wand contains 
a specific level of the spell, but you can craft a wand with 
a heightened version of a spell. 


VanviNG STATISTICS 

Each type of wand has a Level and Price determined by the 
spell’s level. The wand's rarity matches the spell’s rarity, and 
it has its spell’s traits. A wand has the normal Hardness, BT, 
and HP of a thin item of its material (page 577). 


CRAFTING A WAND 


For the most part, the process to Craft a wand is like that 
to Craft any other magic item. When you begin the crafting 
process, choose a spell to put into the wand. You have to 


EXAMPLE MAGIC WAND 


This example magic wand has the heal spell. 


WAND OF HEAL 

Í macicar f necromancy |Posmve | wano | 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

The golden end caps on this white wooden wand are 

adorned with ruby cabochons. 

Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day, plus 
overcharge; You cast a heal spell at the indicated level. 

Type 1st-level spell; Level 3; Price 60 gp 

Type 2nd-level spell; Level 5; Price 160 gp 

Type 3rd-level spell; Level 7; Price 360 gp 

Type 4th-level spell; Level 9; Price 700 gp 

Type 5th-level spell; Level 11; Price 1,500 gp 

Type 6th-level spell; Level 13; Price 3,000 gp 

Type 7th-level spell; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp 

Type 8th-level spell; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp 

Type 9th-level spell; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp 

Craft Requirements Supply a listed-level casting of heal. 


ITEM 3+ 


wand. The caster doesn’t need to pay any cost of the spell. 
The casting must come from a spellcaster expending a 
spell slot. You can’t make a wand from a spell that comes 


from another magic item, for example. 


MAGIC WAND 


The simplest form of wand contains a spell, with Price and 
level based on that spell. The wand has the magical and 
wand traits, as well as the traits the spell has. The name of a 
magic wand with a spell in it is simply “wand of,” followed 

by the spell’s name. The wand has any traits of the spell stored 
in it, in addition to the magical and wand traits. You need 
to learn only one 1st-level formula to Craft a magic wand. 


ITEM 3+ 


MAGIC WAND 


either cast that spell during the process, or someone else 
must do so in your presence. That spell doesn’t have its 
normal effects; instead, the magic is captured inside the 


| 


| AL | wan 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 


This baton is about a foot long and contains a single spell. The 


appearance typically relates to the spell within. 
Activate Cast a Spell; 
overcharge; You Cast the Spell at the indicated level. 


Frequency once per day, plus 


Type 1st-level spell; Level 3; Price 60 gp 


Type 2nd-level spell; Level 5; Price 160 gp 


Type 3rd-level spell; Level 7; Price 360 gp 


Type 4th-level spell; Level 9; Price 700 gp 


Type 5th-level spell; Level 11; Price 1,500 gp 


Type 6th-level spell; Level 13; Price 3,000 gp 


Type 7th-level spell; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp 


Type 8th-level spell; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp 


Type Sth-level spell; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp 


Craft Requirements Supply a listed-level casting of the spell. 


‘QUIPMENT 


SPELLS 
| 


LY 


|. THE AGE OF 


. LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
-. BAME 


ET 
L & TREASURE 


: um NDI 


i 
5 
UTR 


SPECIALTY WANDS 


Specialty wands can contain only certain kinds of 
spells, as noted in the stat block, and either alter the 
spell’s effects or affect how it can be cast. The Craft 
Requirements entry lists what kinds of spells the 
wand can hold. 


WAND OF CONTINUATION 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
This wand increases a spell’s duration. Yellow embers 
spiral over its surface until the spell ends. 

Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day, plus 
overcharge; the activation takes *99 if the spell 
normally takes *$ to cast, or “9? if the spell normally 
takes *99; Effect You Cast the Spell, and its duration is 
increased by half. 

Type 1st-level spell; Level 5; Price 160 gp 

Type 2nd-level spell; Level 7; Price 360 gp 

Type 3rd-level spell; Level 9; Price 700 gp 

Type 4th-level spell; Level 11; Price 1,400 gp 

Type 5th-level spell; Level 13; Price 3,000 gp 


ITEM 5* 


Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day, plus overcharge; 
Effect You cast finger of death of the indicated level. If the 
spell slays its target, the corpse releases negative energy 

in a 20-foot emanation, dealing negative damage equal to 
à double the spell's level. 

| Type 7th-level spell; Level 16; Price 10,000 gp 

» Type 8th-level spell; Level 18; Price 24,000 gp 
Type 9th-level spell; Level 20; Price 70,000 gp 


NM . Craft Requirements Supply a casting of finger of death of 


the appropriate level. 


WAND OF SMOLDERING FIREBALLS 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

This blackened, heavily burned stick smells faintly of 
bat guano. 

Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day, plus 
overcharge; Effect You cast fireball of the indicated 
level. Each creature that fails its save takes persistent 
fire damage. 

Type 3rd-level spell; Level 8; Price 500 gp; Persistent 
Damage 1d6 


ITEM 8+ 


Type 6th-level spell; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp 


Type 7th-level spell; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp 


Type 5th-level spell; Level 12; Price 2,000 gp; Persistent 
Damage 2d6 


Type 8th-level spell; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp 


Craft Requirements Supply a casting of a spell of the 


appropriate level. The spell must have a casting time of 
*9 or 99 and a duration no less than 10 minutes and no 
greater than 1 hour. 


WAND OF MANIFOLD MISSILES 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

This wand features a carved dragon's head at its top and a 

polished metal sphere set in its midsection. 

Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day, plus overcharge; 
Effect You cast magic missile of the indicated level. After 
you cast the spell, an additional missile or missiles are 
released from the wand at the start of each of your 
turns, as though you cast the 1-action version of magic 
missile. Choose targets each time. This lasts for 1 
minute, until you're no longer wielding the wand, or 
until you try to activate the wand again. 

Type 1st-level spell; Level 5; Price 160 gp 

Type 3rd-level spell; Level 9; Price 700 gp 

Type 5th-level spell; Level 13; Price 3,000 gp 

Type 7th-level spell; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp 

Craft Requirements Supply a casting of magic missile of 
the appropriate level. 


WAND OF SLAYING 


ITEM 5+ 


ITEM 16+ 


Fon J vaca. J wan 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 


This polished black wand has a green gem at the tip, and 
anyone who looks into it sees a reflection of a grinning skull 
instead of their face. 


Type 7th-level spell; Level 16; Price 10,000 gp; Persistent 
Damage 3d6 

Type Sth-level spell; Level 20; Price 70,000 gp; 
Persistent Damage 4d6 
Craft Requirements Supply a casting of fireball of the 
appropriate level. 


WAND OF WIDENING 


ITEM 4« 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
The end of this wand is forked instead of tapered. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day, plus 
overcharge; This activation takes 99 if the spell normally 
takes *} to cast, or 999 if the spell normally takes 99 
Effect You Cast the Spell, and increase its area. Add 5 feet 
to the radius of a burst that normally has a radius of at least 
10 feet; add 5 feet to the length of a cone or line that is 
normally 15 feet long or smaller; or add 10 feet to the length 
of a larger cone or line. 

Type ist-level spell; Level 4; Price 100 gp 

Type 2nd-level spell; Level 6; Price 250 gp 

Type 3rd-level spell; Level 8; Price 500 gp 

Type 4th-level spell; Level 10; Price 1,000 gp 

Type 5th-level spell; Level 12; Price 2,000 gp 

Type 6th-level spell; Level 14; Price 4,500 gp 

Type 7th-level spell; Level 16; Price 10,000 gp 

Type 8th-level spell; Level 18; Price 24,000 gp 

Type 9th-level spell; Level 20; Price 70,000 gp 

Craft Requirements Supply a casting of a spell of the 
appropriate level. The spell must have a casting time of > 
or +>, can’t have a duration, and must have an area of 
burst (10 feet or more), cone, or line. 


WEAPONS 


Weapons can be crafted from precious materials or infused 
with magic to grant them powerful and unusual abilities. 


PRECIOUS MATERIAL WEAPONS 


Weapons made of precious materials are more expensive 
and sometimes have special effects. You can make metal 
weapons out of any of these materials except darkwood, 
and wooden weapons out of darkwood. To determine the 
Price of 10 pieces of ammunition, use the base Price for a 
single weapon, without adding any extra for Bulk. 


ADAMANTINE WEAPON ITEM 11+ 
Usage varies by weapon; Bulk varies by 
weapon 

Adamantine weapons have a shiny black 

appearance and cut through lesser items with 

ease. They treat any object they hit as if it had half as 
much Hardness as usual, unless the object's Hardness 
is greater than that of the adamantine weapon. 

Type standard-grade adamantine weapon; Level 11; Price 
1,400 gp + 140 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at 
least 175 gp of adamantine + 17.5 gp per Bulk 

Type high-grade adamantine weapon; Level 
17; Price 13,500 gp + 1,350 gp per Bulk; 
Craft Requirements at least 6,750 gp 
of adamantine + 675 gp per Bulk 


COLD IRON WEAPON 

Usage varies by weapon; Bulk varies by weapon 

Cold iron weapons deal additional damage to creatures with 

weakness to cold iron, like demons and fey. 

Type low-grade cold iron weapon; Level 2; Price 40 gp + 4 gp 
per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 20 sp of cold iron + 
2 sp per Bulk 

Type standard-grade cold iron weapon; Level 10; Price 880 gp 
+ 88 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 110 gp of cold 
iron + 11 gp per Bulk 

Type high-grade cold iron weapon; Level 16; Price 9,000 gp * 
900 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 4,500 gp of 
cold iron * 450 gp per Bulk 


DARKWOOD WEAPON 

| UNCOMMON | 

Usage varies by weapon; Bulk varies by weapon 

Darkwood weapons are as dark as ebony, with a slight purple 

tint. A darkwood weapon's Bulk is reduced by 1 (or to light 

Bulk if its normal Bulk is 1, with no effect on a weapon that 

normally has light Bulk). 

Type standard-grade darkwood weapon; Level 11; Price 1,400 
gp + 140 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 175 gp of 
darkwood + 17.5 gp per Bulk 

Type high-grade darkwood weapon; Level 17; Price 13,500 gp 
+ 1,350 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 6,750 gp 
of darkwood + 675 gp per Bulk 


ITEM 2+ 


ITEM 11+ 


ITEM 11+ 


MITHRAL WEAPON 

| 

Usage varies by weapon; Bulk varies by weapon 

Mithral weapons are slightly lighter than silver. A mithral weapon 

is 1 Bulk lighter than normal (or light Bulk if its normal Bulk is 1, 

with no effect on a weapon that normally has light Bulk). 

Type standard-grade mithral weapon; Level 11; Price 1,400 gp 
* 140 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 175 gp of 
mithral + 17.5 gp per Bulk 

Type high-grade mithral weapon; Level 17; Price 13,500 gp + 
1,350 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 6,750 gp of 
mithral + 675 gp per Bulk 


ORICHALCUM WEAPON 


ITEM 18 


Usage varies by weapon; Bulk 
varies by weapon 

Orichalcum weapons can have four 
magic property runes instead of three. 
Due to orichalcum’s temporal properties, 
etching the speed weapon property rune onto 
an orichalcum weapon costs half the normal Price 
(though transferring the rune to a weapon made 
of another material requires you to first pay the 
remaining Price and then pay the cost to transfer). 
Type high-grade orichalcum weapon; Level 
18; Price 22,500 gp + 2,250 gp per Bulk; 
Craft Requirements at least 11,250 gp of 
orichalcum + 1,125 gp per Bulk 


SILVER WEAPON 

Usage varies by weapon; Bulk varies by weapon 

Silver weapons deal additional damage to creatures with 

weakness to silver, like werewolves, and ignore the resistances 

of some other creatures, like devils. 

Type low-grade silver weapon; Level 2; Price 40 gp + 4 gp 
per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 20 sp of silver + 2 
sp per Bulk 

Type standard-grade silver weapon; Level 10; Price 880 gp + 
88 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 110 gp of silver 
+11 gp per Bulk 

Type high-grade silver weapon; Level 16; Price 9,000 gp + 
900 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 4,500 gp of 
silver + 450 gp per Bulk 


BASIC MAGIC WEAPON 


Many magic weapons are created by etching runes onto 


ITEM 2+ 


them, as described on page 580. The magic weapon stat 
block covers the Prices and attributes of the most common 
weapons you can make with only fundamental runes. 


MAGIC WEAPON ITEM 2+ 


| Evocation | MAGICAL | 
Usage held in 1 hand 


A magic weapon is a weapon etched with only fundamental 
runes. A weapon potency rune gives an item bonus to attack 


EQUIPMENT 
Esc 
; ‘SPELLS 
Em 
- THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


98. 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


— me uec 
JATHF Conr RULEBOOK - . 
p ue———— i e "a n cci 


rolls with the weapon, and a striking rune increases the 
weapon's number of weapon damage dice. 

The Prices here are for all types of weapons. You don't need 
to adjust the Price from a club to a greataxe or the like. These 
weapons are made of standard materials, not precious 
materials such as cold iron. 

Type +1 weapon; Level 2; Price 35 gp 

This weapon has a +1 weapon potency rune (+1 item bonus to 
attack rolls with the weapon). 

Type +1 striking weapon; Level 4; Price 100 gp 

This weapon has a +1 weapon potency rune (+1 item 
bonus to attack rolls with the weapon) and a striking 
rune (one extra damage die). 

Type +2 striking weapon; Level 10; Price 1,000 gp 

This weapon has a *2 weapon potency rune (*2 item bonus 
to attack rolls with the weapon) and a striking rune (one 
additional damage die). 

Type +2 greater striking weapon; Level 12; Price 2,000 gp 
This weapon has a *2 weapon potency rune (*2 item bonus 
to attack rolls with the weapon) and a greater striking rune 
(two extra damage dice). 

Type +3 greater striking weapon; Level 16; Price 10,000 gp 
This weapon has a *3 weapon potency rune (*3 item bonus to 
attack rolls with the weapon) and a greater striking rune (two 
extra damage dice). 

Type +3 major striking weapon; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp 
This weapon has a *3 weapon potency rune (*3 item bonus to 
attack rolls with the weapon) and a major striking rune (three 
extra damage dice). 


SPECIFIC MAGIC WEAPONS 


These weapons have abilities far different from 


^ 


what can be gained by simply etching runes. A 
specific magic weapon lists its fundamental runes, which 
you can upgrade, add, or transfer as normal. You can't 
etch or transfer any property runes onto a specific 
weapon that it doesn't already have, and you can't 
remove its property runes. 


BLOODLETTING KUKRI ITEM 6 
| UNcoMMON | MacicaL | necromancy | 
Price 240 gp — 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
This +1 striking kukri has a crimson blade that shimmers 
eerily in bright light. On a critical hit, the kukri deals 1d8 
persistent bleed damage. If the target didn't already 
have persistent bleed damage when you scored the 
critical hit, you also gain 1d8 temporary Hit Points. 


CATERWAUL SLING ITEM5 

Price 155gp —— — — 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Made of shiny brown leather, this *1 striking sling has a single 
white thread interwoven into its cord. 

Activate * Interact (sonic); Frequency once per day; Effect 


You pull the white thread free, then whirl the sling in circles 
at high speed. It lets out an ear-piercing wave of sound. 
Each creature in a 30-foot cone takes 4d6 sonic damage 
(DC 21 basic Fortitude save). Any creature that fails is 
deafened for 1 round, or 1 hour on a critical failure. 


DAGGER OF VENOM ITEM 5 
| macicaL || necromancy f Poison f 
Price 150 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 
The serrated blade of this +1 striking dagger has a greenish 
tinge, and the hilt is sculpted to look like the head of a 
serpent about to strike. When you critically succeed at an 
attack roll with the dagger of venom, the target becomes 
sickened 1 unless it succeeds at a DC 19 Fortitude save. 
This is a poison effect. In addition, you can activate the 
dagger to poison a creature with a more potent poison. 
Activate ® Interact; Frequency once per day; Trigger You 
damage a creature with the dagger of venom; Effect You 
poison the creature you hit with dagger venom. 
Dagger Venom (poison); Saving Throw Fortitude DC 21; 
Maximum Duration 4 rounds. Stage 1 1d8 poison damage 
and enfeebled 1. 


DWARVEN THROWER 
| evocation | macicat | 
Price 2,750 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This 42 striking warhammer is inlaid with precious metals 
and decorated with geometric patterns in a dwarven 
style. If you're a dwarf, a dwarven thrower functions 
for you as a +2 greater striking returning warhammer 
with the thrown 30 feet trait, and your attacks with the 
hammer deal 1d8 additional damage against giants. 


FIGHTER'S FORK ITEM3 

| MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 

Price 50 gp 

Usage held in 1 or 2 hands; Bulk 1 

This +1 trident, usually engraved with a decorative pattern 

resembling fish scales, is a common weapon among warriors 

of aquatic ancestries. 

Activate *9 Interact; Effect You extend or shorten the trident's 
haft. When extended, the trident requires two hands 
to wield and gains the reach trait, but loses the trident's 
normal thrown trait. 


FLAME TONGUE 


ITEM 13 


ITEM 13+ 


Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

This +2 greater striking flaming longsword has an ornate brass 

hilt and a blade shaped like stylized flames. When wielded, the 

blade projects illumination resembling shimmering firelight, 

emitting dim light in a 10-foot radius. 

Activate *$9 command, Interact; Effect You cast the produce 
flame cantrip from the sword as a 7th-level arcane spell, 


using your melee attack modifier with flametongue as your 
spell attack modifier. 

Type flame tongue; Level 13; Price 2,800 gp 

Type greater flame tongue; Level 17; Price 13,800 gp 

This is a +3 greater striking greater flaming longsword. When 

you activate the sword to cast produce flame, the spell is 

9th level. 

Activate * command; Frequency once per day; Effect A 10- 
foot emanation of flame radiates from the greater flame 
tongue for 1 minute. All weapon and unarmed attacks by 
you and your allies within the area gain the effect of the 
flaming property rune. 


FROST BRAND 
| coro | evocation | 
Price 10,000 gp 
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2 
The blade of this +2 greater striking greater frost greatsword 
appears to be nothing but icy shards. The frost brand 
automatically extinguishes non-magical fires in a 20-foot 
emanation. While wielding it, you gain fire resistance 5. 
Activate 99: command, Interact; Effect You swing the 
frost brand into the area of an ongoing magical fire, 
and the blade attempts to counteract the fire with a 
counteract modifier of +27. If it fails, it can't attempt 
to counteract the same fire again. 


GLOOM BLADE 

Price 700 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

As black as coal, this blade grows more potent 

in darkness. While in bright light, it functions 

as a +! shortsword and doesnt appear to 

radiate a magic aura to detect magic or similar 

spells unless the spells are 4th level or higher. 
In dim light or darkness, the gloom blade becomes a +2 


ITEM 16 


MAGICAL 


striking shortsword. Whenever you use the gloom blade l 


to attack a creature you're undetected by, you deal 1d6 
additional precision damage. 

To upgrade the gloom blades fundamental runes, start 
with the base +1 shortsword, but if you improve it beyond 
a +2 striking shortsword, the runes apply in dim light or 
darkness as well. 


HOLY AVENGER 

Price 4,500 gp 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 

The gleaming holy avenger is the iconic weapon of 

powerful paladins. The crossbar of this +2 greater striking 

holy cold iron longsword is styled to look like angel wings. 
Tradition holds that those who see their reflection in a holy 
avenger's highly polished blade have their faults laid bare. If 
you are evil, you are enfeebled 2 while carrying or wielding 
this weapon. 


ITEM 14 


MÁ LUCK BLADE 


Activate *99 command, Interact; Frequency 
once per hour; Effect You command the sword 
and point it at a creature you can see. The sword 
casts detect alignment to detect evil, but this 
targets only the selected creature instead of 
detecting in an area. 
Paladin Wielder |f you're a champion of 
the paladin cause, you also gain the following 
two benefits. 
* When you critically hit an evil creature with the 
holy avenger, the creature is slowed 1 and enfeebled 
2 for 1 round. 
e You can activate the sword in the following way. 
Activate * command; Frequency once per day; 
Requirements You hit a creature using the 
holy avenger on your previous action; 
Effect You cast dispel magic at the same 
level as your champion focus spells. It must target an 
illusion the creature you hit created, a spell affecting 
the creature you hit, or an item the creature you hit 
wears or carries. The spell or item you attempt to 
counteract must be within 120 feet of you. 
Craft Requirements You are a champion with the paladin cause; 
supply a casting of detect alignment and dispel magic. The 
initial raw materials must include 120 gp of cold iron. 


ITEM 17+ 


[ Rare EO f Fortune | macica. 

Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L 

Luck and good fortune bless the wielder of this +3 greater 

striking shortsword. Luck blades are crafted in a variety 
of styles, but their hilts or blades always 
incorporate symbols of luck, such as clovers, 
horseshoes, fish, ladybugs, or other symbols. 

Activate 2 envision; Frequency once per day; 

Trigger You miss on a Strike with the luck blade; Effect 
Reroll the triggering attack roll and use the new result. This 
is a fortune effect. 

Type luck blade; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp 

| Type wishing luck blade; Level 19; Price 30,000 gp 

| Some luck blades contain one wish when crafted. You can 

cast this spell as an arcane innate spell while wielding the 

luck blade, expending the spell. A spellcaster who can cast 

wish can place another wish into the blade by spending 
8,000 gp and 4 days of downtime. A wishing luck blade can 
hold no more than one wish at a time. 

Craft Requirements Supply a casting of wish. 


MATTOCK OF THE TITANS 

| Uncommon | evocation | MAGICAL | 
Price 36,000 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 16 
This 15-foot-long adamantine digging tool is far too big for 
even a Large creature to wield, though if you're a Small or 
larger creature, you can wield it while wearing a belt of 
giant strength, as though it were appropriately sized for 


A 
n 


ITEM 19 


hh. 


f 
| 


EQUIPMENT 


z 


‘SPELLS 


E 


HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


me 9.0. 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 
Te 


AREND 


ine iim (DIM e e T = ^ 
PATHF CORE RULEBOOK 3j 
: t r( » a "a n ai 


you and had 2 Bulk. The GM might also allow you to wield 

the mattock if you have some other means of wielding 

oversized weapons, such as if you're a Large barbarian with 
the giant instinct or are a Huge creature. When it's used as 

a weapon, the mattock of the titans has the statistics 

of a *3 greater striking keen adamantine 

greatpick. 

While you're wielding the mattock 
of the titans, you gain a *3 item bonus to Athletics 
checks. You can use it to loosen or push soft earth at a rate 
of 1 minute per 5-foot cube or smash through solid stone at 
the rate of 5 minutes per 5-foot-cube. 

Activate *99 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect 
You dig furiously with the mattock to non-magically 
replicate the effects of an earthquake spell. 

Craft Requirements You are a titan, and the initial raw 
materials must include 8,100 gp of adamantine. 


OATHBOW 
EDTERETSM 
Price 1,300 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 2 
Constructed of a flexible, white wood and with 
ornate, twisting designs carved into its surface, this 
*2 striking composite longbow appears to have been 
made by elves. Sometimes when you loose an arrow, 
its whistling in flight sounds like a voice whispering 
in Elven, wishing for the swift defeat of your enemies. 
Activate *$ command; Effect You swear an oath to 
destroy one creature you can see. For the next 7 days 
or until that creature is slain, your attacks with the 
bow against that creature deal 1d6 additional damage, 
and you gain a *2 circumstance bonus to Survival 
checks to Track that creature. Your critical hits against 
the target gain the bow's critical specialization effect 
(page 283); if they would already do so, they instead 
increase the DC of the Athletics check to Escape when 
critically hit to DC 20. 

After you activate the bow, you can't activate it 
again for 7 days. If you kill the creature you've sworn 
an oath against, the oath ends and you need to wait 
only 10 minutes before you can activate it again. 


RETRIBUTION AXE 

| encuawtwent | macica | 
Price 60 gp 

Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2 
The blade of this +1 greataxe bears a design of a 

human skull. Whenever a creature damages you 

with an attack, the skull changes its appearance 

to look like the face of that creature. You gain a 

+2 circumstance bonus to your next damage roll 

against that creature before the end of your next turn. Because 
the face reshapes each time you're damaged, you get the 
additional damage only if you attack the creature that damaged 
you most recently. 


ITEM 11 


ITEM 3 


SKY HAMMER 
[ac [ evosron [ macca | 
Price 70,000 gp 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
The sturdy head of this +3 major striking flaming 
shock orichalcum warhammer is shaped like a 
blazing comet. 
Activate 2 command; Trigger Your attack roll 
with the sky hammer is a critical success; Effect 
A 6th-level arcane fireball spell explodes, centered on 
the sky hammer. The spell DC is 45. You are immune to the 
fireball's effect, though your allies are not. 
Craft Requirements Supply a casting of fireball (6th level), 
and the initial raw materials must include 12,375 gp of 
orichalcum. 


STORM FLASH 
[iscem | evocan | masin | 
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1 
This +2 greater striking shock rapier has a golden blade, 
and miniature electric arcs flash across its guard while it’s 
wielded. When out of its sheath under an open sky, the blade 
causes storm clouds to gather slowly above. 
Activate ‘> command, envision; Frequency once per day; 
Effect You cast a 6th-level lightning bolt (DC 33). 
Activate 2 command; Frequency once per 10 minutes; 
Trigger An electricity effect targets you or a creature within 
10 feet of you, or has you or a creature within 10 feet of 
you in its area; Effect You try to divert the electricity 
off course, to be absorbed by storm flash. Choose one 
$ eligible creature to protect and roll a melee attack roll 
$ against the DC of the electricity effect. If you succeed, 
| the chosen creature takes no electricity damage from 
the triggering effect. 
Type storm flash; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp 
Type greater storm flash; Level 18; Price 21,000 gp 
This is a *3 greater striking greater shock rapier. When 
activating the sword to cast lightning bolt, the spell 
is 8th level (DC 38). 


TWINING STAFF 
EXTEETTVTU 
Price 250 gp 
Usage held in 1 or 2 hands; Bulk — to 2 
Appearing to be just a small, flat disc made of twigs, this 
item can grow and shrink. 
Activate *9 Interact; Effect You cause the twigs to rapidly 
grow or contract, reshaping into a +1 striking staff, a 
+1 striking bo staff, or its disc form. In its disc form, it has 
negligible Bulk and must be held in one hand to be activated. 
In the other forms, it has the same Bulk as a normal weapon 
of its type. You can switch your grip as part of the activation. 
When you expand the item, you can use the force of the 
expansion to High Jump or to try to Force Open a door or 
the like by wedging the disc into a gap before activation. 
The staff makes the Athletics check with a +15 modifier. 


ITEM 20 


ITEM 14+ 


ITEM6 


H 
4 
» 
$ 
' 
3 


WORN ITEMS 
This section includes magic items you wear. Most have the 
invested trait, which means you can wear no more than 10 
(page 531). Worn items include the following subcategories, 
with special rules appearing at the start of the section. 

* Apex Items on this page. 

* Companion Items on page 604. 

* Other Worn Items on page 604. 


APEX ITEMS 


When you Invest an Item that has the 
apex trait, it improves one of your ability 
scores, either increasing it by 2. or to a total of 18, 
whichever grants the higher score. This gives you all the 
benefits of the new ability score until the investiture runs 
out: increasing Intelligence lets you become trained in an 
additional skill and learn a new language, 
increasing Constitution gives you more 
Hit Points, and so on. 

An apex item grants this benefit only 
the first time it's invested within a 24-hour 
period, and you can benefit from only one 
apex item at a time. If you attempt to invest an apex item 
when you already have one invested, you don't 
gain the ability score increase, though you 
do gain any other effects of Investing 
the Item. 


ANKLETS OF ALACRITY ITEM 17 


| APEX | INVESTED | MAGICAL f TRANSMUTATION | 
Price 15,000 gp 

Usage worn anklets; Bulk — 

These gem-studded golden anklets give you a +3 

item bonus to Acrobatics checks. When you invest the anklets, 
you either increase your Dexterity score by 2 or increase it to 
18, whichever would give you a higher score. 


Activate *9 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You click 


the anklets together, gaining a +20-foot status d o 


bonus to all your Speeds and the effects of 
water walk for the next 10 minutes. 


BELT OF GIANTSTRENGTH — ITEM17 
| APEX | INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION 
Price 15,000 gp 
Usage worn belt; Bulk L 
This thick leather belt is decorated with a buckle carved from 
glittering quartz in the shape of a fist. You gain 
a +3 item bonus to Athletics checks and a +2 
circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to 
lift a heavy object, Escape, and Force Open. 
When you invest the belt, you either increase 
your Strength score by 2 or increase it to 18, 
whichever would give you a higher score. 
Activate 2 Interact; Trigger You are targeted by a thrown 
rock attack, or a rock would fall on you; Effect Attempt an 
Athletics check to grab the triggering rock. Use the Athletics 


DC of the creature throwing the rock, the DC of the hazard 
or other effect, or DC 35 if no other DC is applicable. You 
must have a free hand to catch the rock, but you can Release 
anything you're holding in a hand as part of this reaction. 
Success You safely catch the rock, take no damage, and are 
now holding the rock. 
Failure You take half damage. 
Critical Failure You take full damage. 


BELT OF REGENERATION 


| macicaL | necromancy | 


ITEM 17 


Price 15,000 gp 
Usage worn belt; Bulk L 
This belt is crafted from rubbery troll hide that's green and 
orange in color. You gain 15 temporary Hit Points the first time 
you invest the belt in a day. When you invest the belt, you either 
increase your Constitution score by 2 or increase it 
to 18, whichever would give you a higher score. 
Activate *9 Interact; Frequency once per day; 
Effect You tighten the belt one notch to gain a 
regeneration effect. For 2d4 rounds, at the start 

of your turn each round, you recover 15 Hit Points 

unless you took acid or fire damage since the start of your 
previous turn. 


CIRCLET OF PERSUASION ITEM 17 
| APEX | ENCHANTMENT | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 
Price 15,000 gp 


Usage worn circlet; Bulk — 

This elegant silver band often resembles curling 

fig leaves and fits around your brow. You gain a +2 

item bonus to Deception and Diplomacy checks. 

When you invest the circlet, you either increase 
your Charisma score by 2 or increase it to 18, 

whichever would give you a higher score. 

Activate + envision; Frequency once per hour; Effect You 

cast a 4th-level charm spell (DC 38). 


ITEM 17 


Price 15,000 gp 
Usage worn circlet; Bulk L 
An elegant, colorful gem cut into a complex geometric 
pattern is slotted into a narrow metal band that fits around 
your brow. You gain a +3 item bonus to checks to Recall 
Knowledge, regardless of the skill. When you invest the diadem, 
you either increase your Intelligence score by 2 or 
increase it to 18, whichever would give you a 
higher score. This gives you additional trained 
skills and languages, as normal for increasing 
your Intelligence score. You must select skills 
and languages the first time you invest the item, 
and whenever you invest the same diadem of intellect, 
you get the same skills and languages you chose the first time. 
Activate *} envision; Frequency once per hour; Effect You 
gain the effects of hypercognition. 


"n 


| 
| 


EQUIPMENT 
= 


SPELLS 
GT 


a 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


— KS 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


oo 
val 


HEADBAND OF INSPIRED WISDOM 
| asyurarion | apex | invested | macicaL 
Price 15,000 gp 
Usage worn circlet; Bulk — 
This simple cloth headband remains pristine and clean at all 
times, no matter the circumstances. When you invest the 
headband, you either increase your Wisdom score by 2 or 
increase it to 18, whichever would give you a higher score. 
Activate *} envision; Frequency once per day; Effect When 
you are considering a course of action, you get a gut feeling 
about whether it's a good idea. You gain the effects of an 
augury spell, except that you receive the 
result from your own instincts rather 
than an external source. 
Activate 2 envision (fortune); Frequency 
once per hour; Trigger You fail a saving 
throw against an effect that makes you 
confused, fascinated, or stupefied; Effect The ©) 
headband of inspired wisdom clears your mind. You 
can reroll the saving throw and use the better result. 


COMPANION ITEMS 


You might want to acquire items that benefit a creature that 


ITEM 17 


assists you. These items have the companion trait, meaning 
they function only for animal companions, familiars, and 
similar creatures. Normally these are the only items a 
companion can use. Other items can qualify, at the GM’s 
discretion, but a companion can never Activate an Item. 


Investinc ComPaNion ITEMS 

Any worn companion item needs to be invested. However, 
your companion needs to invest it rather than you 
doing so. This requires you to use the Invest an Item 
activity alongside your companion. A companion has an 
investiture limit of two items (instead of the 10-item limit 
a player character has). 


BARDING OF THE ZEPHYR 


Price 900 gp 
Usage worn barding; Bulk L 


ITEM 10 


This ornate collar of intertwined leather strips of contrasting 
colors is paired with a bracelet of a similar construction. 
When you wear and invest the bracelet and your companion 
wears and invests the collar, you gain a stronger connection 
to each other. You and your companion can always sense each 
others’ emotional states and basic physical wants and needs. 
Activate *® envision; Effect You perceive through your animal 
companion' senses instead of your own. You can Sustain the 
Activation. You are unaware of your own surroundings for 
as long as you are using your animal companions senses. In 
addition to the obvious use when you are separated from 
your companion, this ability might allow you to notice 
sounds, scents, and other stimuli that your 
companion's senses register but yours alone 
dont. 


COLLAR OF INCONSPICUOUSNESS ITEM8 

Price 475 gp 

Usage worn collar; Bulk 1 

This leather collar's worn and almost threadbare look belies its 

magical nature. When your companion wears and invests the 

collar, it gains the ability to change its appearance from that of 

a ferocious animal into a more inconspicuous form. 

Activate *® envision; Effect You touch your animal companion 
to transform it into a nonthreatening Tiny creature of the 
same family or a similar creature (for instance, a house 
cat instead of a tiger, or a puppy instead of a wolf). This 
has the effects of pest form (2nd level, or Ath level if your 
companion can fly). The effect lasts until you Dismiss it. 


HORSESHOES OF SPEED 

Pana. [rasa 
Usage worn horseshoes; Bulk 1 

When you affix these simple iron horseshoes to the hooves 
of an ordinary horse or a quadrupedal animal companion 
and the animal companion invests them, that creature 
gains a +5-foot item bonus to its land Speed and a +2 item 
bonus to Athletics checks to High Jump and Long Jump. In 
addition, when it Leaps, it can move 5 feet farther if jumping 
horizontally or 3 feet higher if jumping vertically. 


ITEM 7+ 


This light barding is covered in stylized wind motifs. When 
you suit up your animal companion, the barding adjusts to fit 
your animal companion regardless of its shape. 

When your companion falls, wind picks it up from below; it 
gains the effects of feather fall. 

Activate +} Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You trace 
a finger along the wind motifs on the barding, granting your 
companion wearing the barding a fly Speed of 30 feet for 
10 minutes. Even if the companion doesn't have the mount 
special ability, it can still Fly while being ridden. 


COLLAR OF EMPATHY 
[enero | orvvanon [sro ew 


Price 600 gp 
Usage worn collar (companion) and worn bracelet (you); Bulk 1 


ITEM 9 


Type horseshoes of speed; Level 7; Price 340 gp 

Type greater horseshoes of speed; Level 14; Price 4,250 gp 
The bonus to Speed is +10 feet, and the bonus to Athletics 
checks is +3. 


OTHER WORN ITEMS 


These are a wide variety of items you wear. Armor appears 


in its own section on page 555, and apex items that can 
increase ability scores are on page 603. 


AEON STONE 

| UNCOMMON | INVESTED 
Usage worn; Bulk — 
Over millennia, these mysterious, intricately cut gemstones 
have been hoarded by mystics and fanatics hoping to 


ITEM 1+ 


MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 


discover their secrets. Despite their myriad forms and 

functions, these stones are purportedly all fragments of 

crystal tools used by otherworldly entities to construct the 
universe in primeval times. 

When you invest one of these precisely shaped crystals, the 
stone orbits your head instead of being worn on your body. 
You can stow an aeon stone with an Interact action, and an 
orbiting stone can be snatched out of the air with a successful 
Disarm action against you. A stowed or removed stone remains 
invested, but its effects are suppressed until you cS 
return it to orbit your head again. y > 

There are various types of aeon stones, j 
each with a different shape, color, and magical 
effect. Each aeon stone also gains a resonant 
power when slotted into a special magical item 
called a wayfinder (page 617). 

Type clear spindle; Level 7; Price 325 gp 

You don't need to eat or drink while this aeon 

stone is invested by you. This aeon stone doesn't 

function until it has been worn continuously for a week 
and invested each day therein. If it's invested by someone 
else, this interval starts over. 

The resonant power allows you to cast air bubble as a 
primal innate spell once per day. 

Type dull gray; Level 1; Price 9 gp 

A dull gray aeon stone has lost its special magical properties, 

sometimes as a result of overusing a tourmaline sphere or pale 

lavender ellipsoid aeon stone. It still orbits your head like any 
other aeon stone and can thus serve as a stylish, hands-free 
option for various spells that target an object, like continual flame. 

Dull gray aeon stones have no resonant power. 

Type gold nodule; Level 6; Price 230 gp 

When a gold nodule aeon stone is created, its creator chooses 

a language they know to store within the crystal. When you 

invest the stone, you gain the ability to understand, speak, 

and write that language. 

The resonant power allows you to cast comprehend 
language as an occult innate 
spell once per day. 

Type lavender and green ellipsoid; 
Level 19; Price 30,000 gp 

This functions as a pale lavender ellipsoid 

aeon stone, but it casts an 8th-level dispel 

magic spell with a counteract modifier of +31. 

The resonant power allows you to cast detect magic 
and read aura as arcane innate spells at will. 

Type orange prism; Level 16; Price 9,750 gp 

An orange prism aeon stone must be activated to provide a 

benefit. The resonant power grants you a *2 item bonus to 

Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion checks—whichever 

corresponds to the tradition of the last spell you enhanced 

with this aeon stone. 

Activate *9 envision; Effect If your next action is to Cast a 
Spell, that spell's level is 1 higher (maximum 10th level) for 
the purposes of counteracting and being counteracted. 

Type pale lavender ellipsoid; Level 13; Price 2,200 gp 


This aeon stone must be activated to provide a benefit. The 
resonant power allows you to cast the read aura cantrip as an 
arcane innate spell. 

Activate Ð envision; Frequency once per day; Trigger A spell 
targets you; Effect The stone casts a 6th-level dispel magic 
spell in an attempt to counteract the triggering spell, with a 
counteract modifier of +22. This can be used only on spells 
that specifically target you—not area spells that don't have 


targets. If it succeeds, it counteracts the spell for all targets 
if other creatures were targeted in addition to you. Each 
time you activate this aeon stone, attempt a DC 5 
» flat check. On a failure, the stone permanently 
turns into a dull gray aeon stone. 
Type pink rhomboid; Level 12; Price 1,900 gp 
i When you invest this stone, you gain 15 
y temporary Hit Points. If the stone's effects are 
suppressed, you lose any of the temporary Hit 
Points remaining until it returns. The temporary 
Hit Points refresh during your daily preparations; 
they do not refresh if you re-invest the stone, or 
invest another pink rhomboid aeon stone, before then. 
The resonant power allows you to cast the stabilize cantrip 
as a divine innate spell. 
Type tourmaline sphere; Level 7; Price 350 gp 
When you would die from the dying condition (typically at 
dying 4), this aeon stone automatically activates and reduces 
your dying value to 1 less than would normally kill you 
(typically to dying 3). The stone then permanently turns into 
a dull gray aeon stone. You can benefit from this ability only 
once per day, even if you have multiple such stones. 
The resonant power allows you to cast 1st-level heal as a 
divine innate spell once per day. 
ALCHEMIST GOGGLES 


ITEM 4+ 


MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 

Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk — 

These brass goggles are engraved with flame 

patterns and have thick, heavy lenses. While 
worn, they give you a +1 item bonus to 
Crafting checks to Craft alchemical items 
and a +1 item bonus to attack rolls with 

alchemical bombs. You can also ignore 

lesser cover when making Strikes with 
alchemical bombs. 

Type alchemist goggles; Level 4; Price 100 gp 

Type greater alchemist goggles; Level 11; Price 1,400 gp 

The item bonuses are both +2. 

Type major alchemist goggles; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp 

The item bonuses are both +3. 


ARMBANDS OF ATHLETICISM 

| INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION 
Usage worn armbands; Bulk L 
Skilled awl work has imprinted images of a muscled weightlifter 
into these tiered leather bands, which grant you enhanced 
stamina and skill when performing athletic exercises. While 


| invested | 


ITEM 9+ 


"n 


| 
| 


EQUIPMENT 
pi 


SPELLS 


a 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


E ne. 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


ine iim (DIM e e T = ^ 
JATHF CORE RULEBOOK 4j 
Alis 5 iiie toin mo ai - — Ug or a il 


fastened to your upper arms, the armbands give you a +2 
item bonus to Athletics checks. In addition, whenever you use 
an action to Climb or Swim and you succeed at the Athletics 
check, add a +5-foot item bonus to the distance you move. 


You gain the benefits of a +2 weapon potency rune and a 
greater striking rune, or a +3 weapon potency rune and a major 
striking rune if you have an animal instinct and the bestial 
rage instinct ability. 


Type armbands of athleticism; Level 9; Price 645 gp 

Type greater armbands of athleticism; Level 
17; Price 13,000 gp 

The bonus to Athletics checks is *3, and the 

bonus to a successful check to Climb or Swim 

is +10 feet. 


BELT OF THE FIVE KINGS ITEM 9 
Price 650 gp 

Usage worn belt; Bulk L 

Made from interlocking plates of silver and gold, 

this heavy belt bears stylized miniature images of five kingly 
dwarves. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Diplomacy 
checks to Make an Impression with dwarves or 
make a Request from dwarves. You also gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to Intimidation checks against 
giants and orcs. 

The belt also grants you darkvision and the ability 
to understand, speak, and write the Dwarven language. 
Activate *9 Interact; Frequency once per day; 

Requirements You are a dwarf; Effect You tighten 

the belt one notch to gain temporary Hit Points 

equal to your level and grant allies within 20 

feet of you darkvision. Both effects 

last for 10 minutes. 


Usage worn cloak; Bulki — 
This bearskin includes the head and bared teeth of the mighty 
creature from which it was taken. When worn, the cloak 
drapes over your head and around your shoulders, imbuing 
you with a bear’s ferocity. If you have the Rage action, while 
raging you grow jaws that deal 1d10 piercing damage and 
claws that deal 1d6 slashing damage and have the agile trait. 
This transformation is a morph effect, and both the jaws 
and claws are unarmed attacks in the brawling weapon 
group. You gain the benefits of a +7 weapon potency rune 
and a striking rune with these attacks (gaining a +1 
item bonus to attack rolls and increasing the weapon 
damage dice by one). 

If you have an animal instinct (see the barbarian 
on page 82) and the bestial rage instinct ability, 
instead of gaining these unarmed attacks, your 
unarmed attacks from the bestial rage instinct 
ability gain the benefits of a +2 weapon potency 
rune and a greater striking rune (granting a *2 
item bonus to attack rolls and increasing the weapon 
damage dice by two). 

Type berserker's cloak; Level 12; Price 2,000 gp 
Type greater berserker's cloak; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp 


Craft Requirements You are a barbarian with the 
animal instinct. 


BOOTS OF BOUNDING 

[ nvesreo | wacicaL |. TRANSMUTATION | 
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L 

The springy soles of these sturdy leather boots 
cushion your feet and make each step lighter. 
These boots give you a *5-foot item bonus to 
your Speed and a +2 item bonus to Athletics 

checks to High Jump and Long Jump. In addition, when 

you use the Leap action, you can move 5 feet further 

if jumping horizontally or 3 feet higher if jumping vertically. 

Type boots of bounding; Level 7; Price 340 gp 

Type greater boots of bounding; Level 14; Price 4,250 gp 

The bonus to Speed is *10 feet, and the bonus to High 

Jump and Long Jump is +3. 


BOOTS OF ELVENKIND 
Í INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 

Usage worn shoes; Bulk L 
These tall, pointed boots are made from soft, supple 
black or green leather and are decorated with trim 

and buckles of gold. When worn, the boots allow you 
to move more nimbly, granting you a +1 item bonus to 

Acrobatics checks. 

Activate © envision; Frequency once per hour; Effect 
Until the end of your turn, you ignore difficult terrain 
when moving on the ground. If you're wearing a cloak of 

elvenkind, you also gain a +5-foot status bonus to your land 
Speed until the end of your turn. 
Type boots of elvenkind; Level 5; Price 145 gp 
Type greater boots of elvenkind; Level 11; Price 1,250 gp 
The boots grant a +2 bonus. If you're also wearing a cloak 
of elvenkind, greater boots of elvenkind constantly grant the 
effects of pass without trace (DC 30) in forest environments. 


BOOTS OF SPEED ITEM 13 

Price 3,000 gp 
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L 

These sleek red boots make your legs feel like 
they're bursting with energy. You gain a +5-foot 
item bonus to your land Speed and to any climb 

or swim Speeds you have. 

Activate +> Interact; Frequency once per day; 
Effect You click the heels of the boots together 
and gain the quickened condition for 1 minute. 
You can use the extra action to Stride, Climb, or Swim. 
(You must still attempt an Athletics check for the Climb 
and Swim actions unless you have the appropriate 
movement type.) 


ITEM 7+ 


ITEM 5+ 


> CRAFTING & TREASURE 


BRACELET OF DASHING ITEM 3 This bright red-and-gold cape is often interlaced § INTRODUCTION 
| INVESTED | MAGICAL | with glittery threads and serves as a distraction. 
Price 58 gp While wearing the cape, you gain a *2 item ANCESTRIES 8 
Usage worn; Bulk L bonus to Deception checks. 
This jangling, silvery bracelet makes you Activate *99 Interact; Frequency once per BACKGROUNDS 
lighter on your feet, giving you a +1 item day; Effect You cast dimension door. The 
bonus to Acrobatics checks. space you leave and the one you appear CLASSES 
Activate *} command; Frequency once per day; in are filled with puffs of smoke that 

Effect You gain a +10-foot status bonus to make anyone within concealed until SKILLS 

Speed for 1 minute. they leave the smoke or the end of your 

next turn, at which point the smoke dissipates. FEATS 

BRACERS OF ARMOR ITEM 8+ Strong winds immediately disperse the smoke. 
| ABJURATION | | INVESTED | | MAGICAL | 
Usage worn bracers; Bulk L CASSOCK OF DEVOTION ITEM 11 al 


These stiff leather armguards grant you a +1 item bonus 
to AC and saving throws, and a maximum Dexterity 
modifier of +5. You can affix talismans to bracers of 
armor as though they were light armor. 
Type |; Level 8; Price 450 gp 

Type ||; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp 

The item bonus to AC and saves is +2. 
Type III; Level 20; Price 60,000 gp 
The item bonus to AC and saves is +3. 


ma | rocusto [ iwvesren | SPELLS 


Price 1,150 gp 
Usage worn garment; Bulk L 
Each cassock of devotion depicts scenes related 
to the domains of a certain deity. It serves as a 
religious symbol of that deity, and it doesn't need 
to be wielded to provide that benefit. You gain a *2 PLAYING THE 
item bonus to Religion checks and a +1 item bonus GAME 
to the divine skill of the deity to whom the cassock is 
dedicated (as listed on pages 437-440). GAME 

BRACERS OF MISSILE DEFLECTION ITEM 3 Activate ® envision; Frequency once per day; Effect Gain 1 MASTERING 

OO 

Usage worn bracers; Bulk L CRAFTING 

These bracers are made from plates of durable mithral and 

gleam like the summer sun. 

Activate 2 Interact; Frequency once per day; Trigger A 
ranged weapon attack hits you but doesnt critically 
hit; Requirements You are aware of the attack and not 
flat-footed; Effect The bracers send the missile off-course. 
You gain a *2 circumstance bonus to AC against the 
triggering attack. If this would cause the attack to be a 
failure, the attack misses you. 

Type bracers of missile deflection; Level 3; Price 52 gp 

Type greater bracers of missile deflection; Level 9; Price 650 gp 

You can activate the bracers once every 10 minutes. 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


& TREASURE - 
sp 


APPENDIX 


BROOCH OF SHIELDING ITEM2 
Price 30 gp 


Usage worn; Bulk — 

This piece of silver or gold jewelry is adorned with miniature 
images of kite shields and can be used to fasten a cloak or 
cape. The brooch automatically absorbs magic missile spells 
targeting you. A brooch of shielding can absorb 30 individual 
magic missiles before it melts and becomes useless. 
Sometimes when found, a brooch of shielding has already 
absorbed a number of missiles. 


CAPE OF THE MOUNTEBANK ITEM 10 (5 


UNCOMMON | CONJURATION | INVESTED | MAGICAL 


Price 980 gp 
Usage worn cloak; Bulk L 


THFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


Focus Point, which you can spend only to cast a cleric domain 

spell for a domain belonging to the deity the cassock is dedicated 

to. If you don't spend this point by the end of this turn, it is lost. 

Craft Requirements You are a cleric who worships the deity 
tied to the cassock. 


CHANNEL PROTECTION AMULET 
[UNCOMMON | aBjuRATION | inve | macica 


Price 56 gp 
Usage worn; Bulk — 


ITEM3 


This platinum choker bears characters from a language's alphabet, 
and it gives knowledge of that language and the associated 
cultures customs. You gain a +1 item bonus to Society checks and 
the ability to understand, speak, and write the chosen language. 
Your excellent elocution reduces the DC of the flat check to 
perform an auditory action while deafened from 5 to 3. 

Type choker of elocution; Level 6; Price 200 gp 

Type greater choker of elocution; Level 10; Price 850 gp 

The item bonus is +2. The choker bears characters from three 
languages and grants fluency in all three. 


This nugget of polished tektite is trapped in a cage of braided 
wire and hangs from a silken cord. When wearing this amulet, 
you gain resistance 5 against damage from harm spells if 
yourre living, or against heal spells if you're undead. 


CHOKER OF ELOCUTION 


Usage worn collar; Bulk L 


ITEM 6+ 


Craft Requirements You know the language or languages the 
choker grants. 


CLANDESTINE CLOAK 

| UNCOMMON | ILLUSION | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 

Usage worn cloak; Bulk L 

When you pull up the hood of this nondescript gray cloak 

(an Interact action), you become drab and uninteresting, gaining 

a +1 item bonus to Stealth checks and to Deception checks to 

Impersonate a forgettable background character, such as a 

servant, but also taking a -1 item penalty to Diplomacy and 

Intimidation checks. 

Activate *99 envision, Interact; Frequency once per day; 
Effect You pull the cloak's hood up and gain the benefits 
of nondetection for 1 hour or until you pull the hood back 
down, whichever comes first. 

Type clandestine cloak; Level 6; Price 230 gp 

Type greater clandestine cloak; Level 10; Price 900 gp 

The item bonus is *2, and when you activate the cloak, you 

gain the benefits of 5th-level nondetection for 8 hours. 


CLOAK OF ELVENKIND 
Usage worn cloak; Bulk L 
This cloak is deep green with a voluminous hood, embroidered 
with gold trim and symbols significant in elven culture. The 
cloak allows you to cast the ghost sound cantrip as an arcane 
innate spell. When you adjust the cloak's clasp (an Interact 
action), the cloak transforms to match the environment around 
you and muffles your sounds, granting you a +1 item bonus to 
Stealth checks. 

Activate *99 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You 
draw the hood up and gain the effects of invisibility, with 
the spell's normal duration or until you pull the hood back 
down, whichever comes first. If you're also wearing boots of 
elvenkind, you can activate this ability twice per day. 

Type cloak of elvenkind; Level 7; Price 360 gp 

Type greater cloak of elvenkind; Level 12; Price 1,750 gp 

The cloak grants a +2 item bonus, and the effects of 4th-level 

invisibility. f you're also wearing boots of elvenkind, the greater 

cloak of elvenkind allows you to Sneak in forest environments 
even when creatures are currently observing you. 


CLOAK OF THE BAT 


Usage worn cloak; Bulk L 


ITEM 6+ 


ITEM 7+ 


ITEM 10+ 


Sewn from several long strips of luxurious brown and black 
silk, this cloak grants you a +2 item bonus to Stealth checks 
as well as to Acrobatics checks to Maneuver in Flight. You can 
also use your feet to hang from any surface that can support 
your weight, without requiring any check, though you still must 
attempt Athletics checks to Climb in order to move around 
while inverted. 

Activate *}% command, Interact; Frequency once per day; 
Effect You can either transform the cloak into bat-like wings 
that grant you a fly Speed of 30 feet for 10 minutes, or have 
the cloak turn you into a bat by casting a 4th-level pest form 
spell on you. 

Type cloak of the bat; Level 10; Price 950 gp 

Type greater cloak of the bat; Level 17; Price 13,000 gp 

The item bonus is +3, and you can activate the cloak any 

number of times per day. 


COYOTE CLOAK 


Usage worn cloak; Bulk — 


ITEM 3+ 


Type dancing scarf; Level 3; Price 60 gp 

Type greater dancing scarf; Level 9; Price 650 gp 

The scarf grants a +2 bonus. When you activate the scarf, you 
can also Stride up to half your Speed or Step. 


DAREDEVIL BOOTS 

Usage worn shoes; Bulk L 
These brightly colored, soft-soled boots motivate you to perform 
risky stunts and grant you the agility to succeed. The boots grant 
you a +2 item bonus to Acrobatics checks and a +1 circumstance 
bonus to checks to Tumble Through an enemy's space. 

The boots can grip solid surfaces and help you avoid a fall, 
allowing you to use the Grab an Edge reaction even if your 
hands aren't free. You treat falls as 10 feet shorter or, if you 
have the Cat Fall feat, treat your proficiency rank in Acrobatics 
as one degree better to determine the benefits of that feat. If 
you have Cat Fall and are already legendary in Acrobatics, you 
can choose the speed of your fall, from 60 feet per round up 
to normal falling speed. 


ITEM 10+ 


This dusty coat is made of mangy brown-and-gray coyote fur. 
You gain a *1 item bonus to Survival checks. If you critically 
succeed at your Survival check to Subsist, you can feed twice 
as many additional creatures. 

Type coyote cloak; Level 3; Price 60 gp 

Type greater coyote cloak; Level 9; Price 650 gp 

The cloak grants a *2 item bonus, and if you critically succeed 
at a Survival check to Subsist, you can feed four times as 
many additional creatures. 


CRAFTER'S EYEPIECE 


EXE 
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk — 
This rugged metal eyepiece etched with square patterns is 
designed to be worn over a single eye. Twisting the lens reveals 
a faint three-dimensional outline of an item you plan to build 
or repair, with helpful labels on the component parts. You gain 
a +1 item bonus to Crafting checks. When you Repair an item, 
increase the Hit Points restored to 10 + 10 per proficiency rank 
ona success or 15 + 15 per proficiency rank on a critical success. 
Type crafter's eyepiece; Level 3; Price 60 gp 
Type greater crafter's eyepiece; Level 11; Price 1,200 gp 
The eyepiece grants a *2 item bonus and can be activated. 
Activate 1 minute (Interact); Frequency once per day; Effect You 
calibrate the eyepiece to have it cast a 5bth-level creation spell 
over the course of 1 minute to construct a temporary item. 


DANCING SCARF ITEM 3+ 


INVESTED | MAGICAL | vis 


ITEM 3+ 


Usage worn belt; Bulk — 


This long and billowing scarf is typically woven of silk or sheer 
fabric and adorned with bells or other jangling bits of shiny 
metal. It grants a +1 item bonus to Performance checks to dance. 
Activate *9 Interact; Requirements On your most recent action, 
you succeeded at a Performance check to dance; Effect You 
become concealed until the beginning of your next turn. 


Type daredevil boots; Level 10; Price 900 gp 

Type greater daredevil boots; Level 17; Price 14,000 gp 

The bonus to Acrobatics checks is *3, and the bonus to Tumble 

Through is *2. The boots can be activated. 

Activate *99 command; Frequency once per day; Effect The 
boots cast freedom of movement on you. 


DEMON MASK 


ENCHANTMENT | INVESTED | MAGICAL 
Usage worn mask; Bulk L 
This terrifying mask is crafted in the visage of a leering demon 
and grants a +1 item bonus to Intimidation checks. 
Activate 99 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect The 
mask casts a fear spell with a DC of 20. 
Type demon mask; Level 4; Price 85 gp 
Type greater demon mask; Level 10; Price 900 gp 
The mask grants a *2 item bonus. It casts 3rd-level fear with 
a DC of 29. 


DIPLOMAT'S BADGE 
Í ENCHANTMENT | INVESTED 
Price 125 gp 

Usage worn; Bulk — 

When displayed prominently, this brass badge makes 

creatures find you more agreeable. You gain a +1 item bonus 

to Diplomacy checks. 

Activate *® Recall Knowledge; Frequency once per day; Effect 
Attempt a DC 20 check to Recall Knowledge about people of a 
human ethnicity, a non-human ancestry, or some other type of 
creature. (The GM determines what your options are.) If you 
succeed, the badges bonus increases to +2 for Diplomacy 
checks with creatures of that group for the rest of the day. 


DOUBLING RINGS ITEM 3+ 
EVOCATION | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 


Usage worn; Bulk — 


ITEM 4+ 


ITEM 5 


i 


MAGICAL 


THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


me’ 9.0. 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


necem SD namni 


A ag a ra i “i » zd 


E RULEBOOK 43 


This item consists of two magically linked rings: an 
intricate, gleaming golden ring with a square-cut ruby, and 
a thick, plain iron ring. When you wield a melee weapon in 
the hand wearing the golden ring, the weapon's fundamental 
runes are replicated onto any melee weapon you 
wield in the hand wearing the iron ring. (The 
fundamental runes are weapon potency 
and striking, which add an item bonus 
to attack rolls and extra weapon he 
damage dice, respectively.) Any 
fundamental runes on the 
weapon in the hand wearing 
the iron ring are suppressed. 

The replication functions only 
if you wear both rings, and it ends as 
soon as you cease wielding a melee weapon in 
one of your hands. Consequently, the benefit 
doesnt apply to thrown attacks or if you're 
holding a weapon but not wielding it 
(such as holding in one hand a weapon 
that requires two hands to wield). a 
Type doubling rings; Level 3; Price 50 gp : 
Type greater doubling rings; Level 11; Price 

1,300 gp 
The rings also replicate property runes from the weapon in 
the gold-ringed hand, so long as the weapon in the iron-ringed 
hand meets all the prerequisites for a given rune and is not 
a specific weapon. The weapon in the iron-ringed hand gains 
the benefits of those runes. All its own runes are suppressed. 
When you invest the rings, you can elect for the rings to 
transfer only fundamental runes, in which case they function 
as standard doubling rings. 


DREAD BLINDFOLD 


ITEM 17 


Usage worn garment; Bulk L 
This brown-and-green tunic is embroidered with patterns that 
resemble interlocking elk antlers. You gain a +2 item bonus to 
Nature checks. 
Activate © envision; Frequency once per day; Effect You gain 
1 Focus Point, which you can spend only to cast an order 
spell. If you don’t spend this Focus Point by the end 
of this turn, it is lost. 

Craft Requirements You are a druid. 


EVE OF FORTUNE 
| oivination | 

Price 2,700 gp 
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk — 

Adherents of Erastil, god of the hunt, create 
these magical eye patches. An eye of fortune has 
a jeweled eye symbol on its front, allowing you to 

magically see through the eye patch as though it 
were transparent. 

Activate © envision (fortune); Trigger You 
© attack a concealed or hidden creature and 
haven't attempted the flat check yet; Effect 
You can roll the flat check for the concealed or 


hidden condition twice and use the higher result. 


EYES OF THE EAGLE 


Price 700 gp 

Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk — 

These lenses of amber crystal fit over your eyes. They grant 
you low-light vision and a +2 item bonus to Perception checks 
that involve sight. 


GLOVES OF STORING. 


ITEM 13 


| macica | 


ITEM9 


ITEM 7 


FEAR | INVESTED | 


EMOTION | ENCHANTMENT | FEAR | 
Price 15,000 gp 
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk — 


MAGICAL | MENTAL | 


INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 


| UNCOMMON | EXTRADIMENSIONAL | 
Price 340 gp 


Usage worn gloves; Bulk — 


When tied over your eyes, this ragged strip of black linen 
gives you a +3 item bonus to Intimidation checks and 
darkvision. You can see through the blindfold, but only 


using darkvision. y ; 


The first time a particular creature sees you in a day, it 
must succeed at a DC 37 Will save or be frightened 1. This 
is an emotion, fear, and mental effect, and your allies become 
immune to it after about a week. 

Activate €? command; Frequency once per 
minute; Trigger You damage a creature 
with a Strike; Effect Your target is gripped 
by intense fear. This has the effect of a 
DC 37 phantasmal killer spell, but it is an 
enchantment instead of an illusion. The creature is then 
temporarily immune for 24 hours. 


DRUID'S VESTMENTS 


FOCUSED | INVESTED | PRIMAL | TRANSMUTATION | 
Price 1,000 gp 


ITEM 10 


An item can be stored inside these supple leather gloves, held 
in an extradimensional space. When an item is inside the 
glove, an image of the item appears as a simple, 

` stitched pattern on the back of each glove. 
Many gloves of storing are found with an item 
already inside. 

Activate *9 Interact; Requirements No item 

is stored in the gloves; Effect One item you're 
holding with a Bulk of 1 or less vanishes into the gloves' 
extradimensional space. 

Activate €^ Interact; Requirements An item is stored 

in the gloves, and you have a free hand; Effect The item 

stored in the gloves appears in your hand. The gloves can't 
be activated again for 1 minute. 


GOGGLES OF NIGHT 

INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk — 
The opaque crystal lenses of these sleek goggles do not 


ITEM 5+ 


obscure vision, but rather enhance it. While wearing the 

goggles, you gain a +1 item bonus to Perception checks 

involving sight. 

Activate *9 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect Rotating 
the lenses 90 degrees, you gain darkvision for 1 hour. 

Type goggles of night; Level 5; Price 150 gp 

Type greater goggles of night; Level 11; Price 
1,250 gp 

The item bonus is *2, and the darkvision 

lasts until you rotate the lenses back or the 

item is no longer invested by you, whichever 

comes first. 

Type major goggles of night; Level 18; Price 20,000 gp 

The item bonus is +3, and the goggles grant greater darkvision, 

which lasts until you rotate the lenses back or the item is no 

longer invested by you, whichever comes first. 


GORGET OF THE PRIMAL ROAR 


| ENCHANTMENT | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 

Price 1,250 gp 

Usage worn collar; Bulk L 

This engraved darkwood gorget seems to vibrate with 

ferocity, granting you a *2 item bonus to 

Intimidation checks. 

Activate *} command; Frequency once 
during the duration of each polymorph 
effect; Requirements You're in a 
non-humanoid form via a polymorph effect; 
Effect You unleash a bestial roar, attempting 
a single Intimidation check compared to the 
Will DCs of all enemies within 30 feet to impose 
the effects below. Though this activation has the 
command component, you can issue this command 
without the need for language. 

Critical Success The creature is frightened 2. 
Success The creature is frightened 1. 
Failure The creature is unaffected. 


HAND OF THE MAGE 

| Evocation | INVESTED | MAGICAL 
Price 30 gp 
Usage worn; Bulk L 

This mummified elf hand hangs on a golden chain, its gnarled 
fingers locked in a peculiar pattern. 

Activate *99* command, envision; Effect You cast mage hand. 


HANDWRAPS OF MIGHTY BLOWS ITEM 2+ 


| INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 

Usage worn gloves; Bulk — 

As you invest these embroidered strips of cloth, you must 
meditate and slowly wrap them around your hands. These 
handwraps have weapon runes etched into them to give your 
unarmed attacks the benefits of those runes, making your 
unarmed attacks work like magic weapons. For example, +1 
striking handwraps of mighty blows would give you a +1 item 


bonus to attack rolls with your unarmed attacks and increase 


ITEM 11 


ITEM 2 


| 


the damage of your unarmed attacks from one weapon die 
to two (normally 2d4 instead of 1d4, but if your fists have 
a different weapon damage die or you have other unarmed 
attacks, use two of that die size instead). 
You can upgrade, add, and transfer runes to and 
from the handwraps just as you would for a 
weapon, and you can attach talismans to the 
handwraps. Treat the handwraps as melee 
weapons of the brawling group with light Bulk 
for these purposes. Property runes apply only 
when they would be applicable to the unarmed 
attack you're using. For example, a property that 
must be applied to a slashing weapon wouldn't function when 
you attacked with a fist, but you would gain its benefits if you 
attacked with a claw or some other slashing unarmed attack. 
The entries below list the most typical combinations of 
fundamental runes. 
Type +1 handwraps of mighty blows; Level 2; Price 35 gp 
Type +1 striking handwraps of mighty blows; Level 4; Price 
100 gp 
Type +2 striking handwraps of mighty blows; Level 10; 
Price 1,000 gp 
Type +2 greater striking handwraps of mighty blows; Level 12; 
Price 2,000 gp 
Type +3 greater striking handwraps of mighty blows; Level 16; 
Price 10,000 gp 
Type +3 major striking handwraps of mighty blows; 
CN Level 19; Price 40,000 gp 


HAT OF DISGUISE 
J ILLUSION | INVESTED | MAGICAL J 
Usage worn headwear; Bulk — 

This ordinary-looking hat allows you to cloak 

yourself in illusions. 

Activate 1 minute (Interact); Frequency once per day; Effect 
The hat casts a 1st-level illusory disguise spell on you. While 
setting up the disguise, you can magically alter the hat to 
appear as acomb, ribbon, helm, or other piece of headwear. 

Type hat of disguise; Level 2; Price 30 gp 

Type greater hat of disguise; Level 7; Price 340 gp 

You can activate the hat as a 2-action activity, you can 

activate it any number of times per day, and the illusory 

disguise is 2nd level. 


HAT OF THE MAGI 


| ARCANE | CONJURATION | INVESTED 


ITEM 2+ 


ITEM 3+ 


Usage worn headwear; Bulk — 

This hat comes in many forms, such as a colorful turban or 

a pointy hat with a brim, and can bear symbols or runes. It 

grants you a +1 item bonus to Arcana checks and allows you 

to cast the prestidigitation cantrip as an arcane innate spell. 

Type hat of the magi; Level 3; Price 50 gp 

Type greater hat of the magi; Level 9; Price 650 gp 

This larger, fancier hat grants a +2 bonus and can be activated. 

Activate *}%> Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day; Effect 
You cast a 4th-level arcane summon elemental spell. 


EQUIPMENT 


T 


‘SPELLS 
Er 


HE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


| PLAYING THE 
GAME 


& TREASURE 


we" 


APPEND 


HEALER'S GLOVES 


INVESTED | MAGICAL | necromancy | 


ITEM 4+ 


Usage worn gloves; Bulk L 


These clean, white gloves never show signs of blood, even 

when used to stitch up wounds or treat other ailments. They 

give you a +1 item bonus to Medicine checks. 

Activate *9 Interact; Frequency once per day; 
Effect You can soothe the wounds of a 
willing, living, adjacent creature, restoring 
2d6+7 Hit Points to that creature. This is 
a positive healing effect. You can't harm 
undead with this healing. 

Type healer's gloves; Level 4; Price 80 gp 

Type greater healer's gloves; Level 9; 
Price 700 gp 

The gloves provide a *2 bonus and restore 

4d6+15 Hit Points. 


INEXPLICABLE APPARATUS 
INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 
Price 19,000 gp 

Usage worn garment; Bulk 2 

This strange and intricate harness fits snugly to the torso. 
Once you invest the apparatus, numerous artificial limbs with 
various tools, clamps, and lenses whirl into action, following 
your mental commands effortlessly. 

When using this apparatus, you gain a *3 item bonus 
to Crafting checks to Craft, Earn Income, and Repair, and 
you reduce the minimum time required to Craft an item to 
1 day. If you succeed at your Crafting check and spend more 
downtime to continue work on the item after the minimum 
number of days, each day you spend reduces the remaining 
raw material cost by an amount based on your level * 1 and 
your proficiency rank in Crafting; on a critical success, each 


ITEM 18 


day reduces the remaining raw material cost by an amount 

based on your level * 2 and your proficiency rank. If you are 

20th level, on a critical success your progress is 50 gp, 100 

gp, 200 gp, or 350 gp for trained, expert, master, or legendary 

proficiency, respectively. 

Activate 99 command, Interact; Frequency once per day; 
Effect You command the apparatus to magically jury-rig 
an item you hold or that's within 5 feet of you. The item 
is repaired, as a 3rd-level mending spell. This lasts for 10 
minutes, after which the item returns to its previous state 
of disrepair unless you've Repaired it before then. 


KNAPSACK OF HALFLINGKIND ITEM 9+ 


(UNCOMMON CT | ExrRADIMENSIONAL | HEALING Se re 
Usage worn backpack; Bulk L 

This sturdy leather satchel contains three compartments 
fastened with large clasps. The first compartment is lined in 
blue satin and contains an extradimensional space equivalent 
to a type II bag of holding. 

The second compartment has no lining. You can pull forth 
cookware and cooking utensils from it. Once they have been 
used to prepare a meal, the items transform into plates and 
silverware, and they evaporate once the meal has been eaten, 
taking any leftovers with them. The cookware reappears 
cleaned in the compartment 1 hour later. The compartment 
provides only kitchenware, not any food. 

The third compartment is lined 
with plush purple velvet and 
contains berry tarts wrapped in 
parchment paper. A creature can unwrap 
and eat one tart with an Interact action 
to regain 2d8+4 Hit Points. The knapsack 
produces four tarts per day, which appear 

at breakfast time. Any tarts not eaten by 

the end of the day evaporate. 

Type knapsack of halflingkind; Level 9; 

Price 675 gp 
Type greater knapsack of halflingkind; Level 
13; Price 2,850 gp 
The berry tarts each restore 4d8+8 Hit Points, 

and the bag has two additional compartments, 
each of which can be Activated with an Interact action. 

The fourth compartment is lined in golden velvet. Once 
per day, you can draw a lucky magic sling bullet from this 
compartment. If you attack with this sling bullet, you roll twice 
and use the better result on your attack roll and your damage 
roll. This is a fortune effect. The stone becomes non-magical 
if not hurled by the end of your turn. Once activated, this 
compartment stitches itself shut until the next day. 

The bag's fifth compartment is lined in black wool. Once per 
day, you can unfold this compartment into a 5-foot-diameter 
portal on the ground. The first person to Step into the portal 
from an adjacent square is teleported away. This has the same 
effect as an 5th-level dimension door spell, except the affected 
creature takes the knapsack with them. When the portal is 
used, or at the start of your next turn if it hasn't been used, 


the compartment closes automatically and can't be unfolded 
until the next day. 


LIFTING BELT 
| INVESTED | MAGICAL 
Price 80 gp 
Usage worn belt; Bulk L 
This wide leather belt grants you a *1 item bonus 
to Athletics checks and increases the amount 
you can easily carry. You can carry Bulk equal to 
6 * your Strength modifier before becoming 
encumbered, and you can hold and carry a 
total Bulk up to 11 + your Strength modifier. 
Activate *99 Interact; Effect You lift an 
object of up to 8 Bulk as though it were 
weightless. This requires two hands, and if 
the object is locked or otherwise held in place, 
you can attempt to Force it Open using Athletics 
as part of this activation. The object still has its full 
weight and Bulk for all other purposes—you just ignore 
that weight. The effect lasts until the end of your next turn. 


MESSENGER'S RING ITEM 9+ 


| investeD | MAGICAL | 


ITEM 4 


| Transmuranion | 


Usage worn; Bulk — 

This silver signet ring changes to match the insignia of a lord 

or organization you serve (or your own face, if you serve no 

one else). It grants you a *2 item bonus to 

Diplomacy checks and lets you cast message 

as an arcane innate spell at will. 

Activate 1 minute (envision); Frequency once per 
day; Effect The ring casts animal messenger to 
your specification. The animal is a magical 
creature that springs from the ring, and 
its appearance suits the iconography 
or heraldry of the lord or organization 
represented by the ring. 

Type messenger s ring; Level 9; Price 700 gp 

Type greater messenger 's ring; Level 17; Price 13,500 gp 

The ring grants a *3 bonus and can be activated in an 

additional way. 

Activate *99* command; Frequency once per hour; Effect The 
ring casts sending to your specifications. 


NECKLACE OF FIREBALLS 


| Evocation | INVESTED | MAGICAL 
Usage worn; Bulk — 

This string of beads appears to be a hemp string with lustrous 
red beads of various sizes hanging from it. When activated, 
it briefly appears in its true form: a golden chain with golden 
spheres attached by fine threads. 

Numerous varieties of the necklace of fireballs exist. Each 
has a different basic Reflex save DC and includes a combination 
of spheres dealing different amounts of damage, as listed for 
each type below. When all the beads are gone, the necklace 
becomes a non-magical hemp string. 


ITEM 5+ 


Activate *9 Interact; Effect You detach a sphere from the 
necklace, causing it to glow with orange light. After you 
activate a sphere, if you or anyone else hurls it (an Interact 
action), it detonates as a fireball where it lands. Your toss 
can place the center of the fireball anywhere within 70 feet, 
though at the GM's discretion you might need to make an 

attack roll if the throw is unusually challenging. If no one 
hurls the sphere by the start of your next turn, it turns 
into a non-magical red bead. 

| Type |; Level 5; Price 44 gp 

|. One 6d6, two 4d6 (DC 21) 

Type ||; Level 7; Price 115 gp 

One 8d6, one 6d6, two 4d6 (DC 25) 

Type lll; Level 9; Price 300 gp 

One 10d6, two 8d6, two 6d6 (DC 27) 

Type IV; Level 11; Price 700 gp 

One 1246, two 10d6, three 8d6 (DC 30) 

Type V; Level 13; Price 1,600 gp 

One 1486, two 12d6, four 10d6 (DC 32) 

Type VI; Level 15; Price 4,200 gp 

One 1646, three 14d6, four 12d6 (DC 36) 

Type VII; Level 17; Price 9,600 gp 

One 18d6, three 16d6, five 14d6 (DC 39) 


PENDANT OF THE OCCULT 


| oivination | vesten | occur | 
Usage worn; Bulk — 
This amulet is hollow and shaped in the form of an 
unblinking eye. Its cavity typically holds some fragment 
of occult text. While wearing the pendant, you gain a 
+1 item bonus to Occultism checks, and you can cast the 
guidance cantrip as an occult innate spell. 
Type pendant of the occult; Level 3; Price 60 gp 
Type greater pendant of the occult; Level 9; 
Price 650 gp 
The pendant grants a +2 item bonus and 
can be activated. 
Activate 10 minutes (Cast a Spell); Frequency 
once per day; Effect You cast a 4th-level dream 
message spell. 


PERSONA MASK 


| FoRTUNE | iLtusion | vesten | MacicaL | 


ITEM 3+ 


ITEM 3+ 


Usage worn mask; Bulk — 


Despite covering the entire face, this alabaster mask does 
not hinder vision or other senses. Wearing the mask grants 
a +1 item bonus to Performance checks while acting, orating, 
performing comedy, or singing. 

Activate *® envision; Effect You change the mask’s 
appearance into an artistic rendition of a dramatic 
character of your choice. 

Type persona mask; Level 3; Price 50 gp 

Type greater persona mask; Level 9; Price 650 gp 

The mask grants a +2 bonus and can be activated. 

Activate ® envision (fortune); Frequency once per day; 
Trigger You fail a Performance check that benefits from the 


EQUIPMENT 


"n 


PLAYING THE 


pix 


SPELLS 
GT 


<i 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


98. 
CRAFTING 
| & TREASURE 


we" 


mask's bonus; Effect You change the mask's character and 
reroll the Performance check, using the second result. 


PHYLACTERY OF FAITHFULNESS ITEM 9+ 


| oivinarion [ ovine 

Usage worn circlet; Bulk L 

This tiny box holds a fragment of religious scripture 

sacred to a particular deity. The box is worn by affixing 

it to a leather cord and tying it around your head 
just above your brow. You don't gain any benefit 
from the phylactery if you don't worship the 
affiliated deity. The phylactery grants you 

religious wisdom, which manifests as a *2 

item bonus to Religion checks. Just before you 

perform an action that would be anathema to the 
phylactery's deity, the phylactery warns you of the 
potential transgression in time for you to change 

your mind. 

Activate *9 envision; Frequency once per day; Effect You ask 
for guidance about a particular course of action, gaining the 
effects of an augury spell. 

Type phylactery of faithfulness; Level 9; Price 680 gp 

Type greater phylactery of faithfulness; Level 17; Price 
13,000 gp 

The phylactery grants a *3 item bonus, and you can activate 

it once every 30 minutes. 


Activate *} command; Effect You harmlessly expend the 
stored spell, having no effect but emptying the ring so that 
another spell can be cast into it. 


RING OF ENERGY RESISTANCE ITEM 6+ 


| ABJURATION | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 
Usage worn; Bulk — 
This ring grants you resistance 5 against one type 
of energy damage: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or 
sonic. Each ring is crafted to protect against 
a particular type of energy damage, and its 
design usually embodies the type of energy 
it protects the wearer from in some way. 
For instance, a ring of fire resistance might 
be capped with a ruby, whereas a ring of cold 
resistance features a sapphire instead. 
Type ring of energy resistance; Level 6; Price 245 gp 
Type greater ring of energy resistance; Level 10; Price 975 gp 
The ring grants resistance 10. 
Type major ring of energy resistance; Level 14; Price 4,400 gp 
The ring grants resistance 15. 


RING OF LIES 


| UNCOMMON | EncHanmmenr | 
Price 850 gp 
Usage worn; Bulk — 


ITEM 10 


INVESTED | MAGICAL | 


Craft Requirements You worship the phylactery's deity. 


RING OF CLIMBING ITEM 12 
ELXXETWENMNVI 
Price 1,750 gp 

Usage worn; Bulk — 

Claw-like prongs on his thick golden band bears extend to dig 
deep into sheer surfaces when you are Climbing. This ring grants 
you a climb Speed equal to half your land Speed. Penalties to your 
Speed (including those from your armor) apply before halving. 


RING OF COUNTERSPELLS ITEM 10 
UNCOMMON | ABJURATION | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 
Price 925 gp 


Usage worn; Bulk — 
This ornate silver ring bears two competing geometric designs 
of brightly colored and wildly clashing inlaid gemstones. A 
spellcaster can cast a single spell into this ring as long as no 
spell is currently stored within, expending the normal time, 
costs, and so forth to Cast the Spell. The spell's effect doesn't 
occur; the spell's power is instead stored within the ring. 
When you invest a ring of counterspells, you immediately 
know the name and level of the spell stored inside, if any. A 
ring of counterspells found as treasure has a 50% chance of 
having a spell stored in it. The GM determines that spell. 
Activate Ð envision; Trigger You are targeted by or within the 
area of the spell stored within the ring; Effect You can attempt 
to counteract the triggering spell, using the level of the spell 
stored in the ring and a counteract modifier of +19. Once you 
do, the stored spell's energy is spent, and the ring is empty. 


This plain silver ring has an almost oily sheen. While wearing 

the ring, you gain a *2 item bonus to Deception checks. 

Activate *99 Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect 
Snapping your fingers on the hand that wears the ring 
causes the ring to cast glibness on you with no visual 
manifestations of a spell being cast. 


RING OF MANIACAL DEVICES 
morar 
Usage worn; Bulk — 

This magic ring seems like simple tarnished brass, but it 

enhances your curiosity about traps and devices of all 

kinds. You can use an Interact action to pull a set of thieves’ 
tools from the ring. These tools appear in your hand and 
fold back into the ring if they would leave your possession. 

They grant you a +2 item bonus to Thievery checks to 

Disable a Device and to Pick a Lock, and the ring’s insights 

grant you the same bonus to Crafting checks to Craft and 

Repair snares and traps. 

Activate 10 minutes (Interact); Frequency once per day; 
Effect You create a 4th-level glyph of warding containing 
fireball. You can have only one glyph of warding from a 
ring of maniacal devices active at a time, even if you 
have multiple rings, and the spell ends if you lose your 
investiture in the ring. 

Type ring of maniacal devices; Level 11; Price 1,175 gp 

Type greater ring of maniacal devices; Level 18; Price 21,000 gp 

The ring grants a +3 bonus. Activating it creates an 8th-level 

glyph of warding containing your choice of either prismatic 

spray or /th-level fireball. 


ITEM 1+ 


RING OF SPELL TURNING 

| RARE | ABJURATION | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 

Price 67000 gp 

Usage worn; Bulk — 

This golden ring has three diamonds set into its face. 

Activate Ð envision; Trigger You are targeted by a 
spell; Effect The ring replicates the effects of 
an 8th-level spell turning with a counteract 
modifier of +35, possibly causing the 
triggering spell to reflect back on its caster. 
The ring can reflect no more than 9 total 
levels of spells per day. If you activate the 
ring to reflect a spell that would exceed this 
limit, the attempt fails, but the attempted usage 
of the ring does not count toward the daily limit. 


RING OF SUSTENANCE 

| UNCOMMON | CONJURATION | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 
Price 325 gp 

Usage worn; Bulk — 

This polished wooden ring constantly refreshes your 
body and mind. You don’t need to eat or drink 
while wearing it, and you need only 2 hours of 
sleep per day to gain the benefits of 8 hours of 
sleep. A ring of sustenance doesn't function until 
it’s been worn and invested continuously for a 
week. Removing it resets this interval. 


RING OF SWIMMING 


| investe | wacicaL | TRANSMUTATION | 
Price 1,750 gp 
Usage worn; Bulk — 


ITEM 20 


ITEM 12 


Type greater ring of the ram; Level 13; Price 2,700 gp 

The ring deals 3d6 force damage per action spent, and the 
save DC is 32. When you activate the ring using 3 actions, you 
can disperse the force into multiple magical rams, targeting 
all creatures in a 30-foot cone instead of one target within 
60 feet. 


RING OF WIZARDRY 
UNCOMMON | ARCANE | DIVINATION 
Usage worn; Bulk — 
This ring is made from the purest platinum and 
is covered in esoteric arcane symbols. It does 
nothing unless you have a spellcasting class feature 
with the arcane tradition. While wearing the ring of 
wizardry, you gain a *1 item bonus to Arcana checks and 
have two additional 1st-level arcane spell slots each day. You 
prepare spells in these slots or cast from them spontaneously, 

just as you normally cast your spells. 
If you take off the ring for any reason, you lose the 
additional spell slots. You can't gain spell slots from more 
than one ring of wizardry per day, nor can a single 
ring of wizardry grant spell slots more than once 
per day. 

If you can cast arcane spells in a variety of 
different ways (such as if you are a draconic 
bloodline sorcerer with the wizard multiclass 
archetype), you can divide the spell slots as you 

wish among your various sources of arcane spells. 
Type |; Level 7; Price 360 gp 
Type ||; Level 10; Price 1,000 gp 
The bonus is *2, and the ring grants two 2nd-level spell slots 
and one 1st-level spell slot. 


ITEM 7+ 


| vesten | 


This blue metal ring grants you a swim Speed equal to half 
your land Speed. Penalties to your Speed (including from your 
armor) apply before halving. 


RING OF THE RAM 


| evocation | Force | INVESTED | 

Usage worn; Bulk — 

This heavy iron ring is shaped to look like the head of a ram, 

with curling horns. 

Activate *9 or more (Interact); Frequency once per minute; 
Effect A ram-shaped blast of force slams into one foe that 
you can see within 60 feet. The number of actions you 
spend to Activate this Item (from 1 to 3) determines the 
intensity of the force. The blow deals 2d6 force damage per 
action spent and pushes the target 5 feet per action spent. 
The target must attempt a DC 22 Fortitude save. 

Critical Success The target is unaffected. 

Success The target takes half damage and is pushed half 
the distance. 

Failure The target takes full damage and is pushed the 
full distance. 

Critical Failure The target takes double damage and is 
pushed twice the distance. 

Type ring of the ram; Level 6; Price 220 gp 


ITEM 6+ 


| mica. 


Type lll; Level 12; Price 2,000 gp 

The bonus is +2, and the ring grants two 3rd-level spell slots 

and one 2nd-level spell slot. 

Type IV; Level 14; Price 4,500 gp 

The bonus is +2, and the ring grants two 4th-level spell slots 

and one 3rd-level spell slot. 

Craft Requirements You have a spellcasting class feature with 
the arcane tradition. 


ROBEOFEYES — — — ITEM 17 


| UNCOMMON | Divination | vesten | MaGicAL | 

Price 13,000 gp 

Usage worn garment; Bulk 1 

This garment appears to be an ordinary robe until donned, at 
which point numerous strange and alien eyes of varied shapes 
and colors open and blink across its fabric. While wearing the 
robe, you gain a +3 item bonus to Perception checks, and 
you constantly benefit from the effects of a 2nd-level see 
invisibility spell. 

You can also see powerful magic auras. The highest-level 
magic aura within 30 feet of you glows in a color that reveals 
its school to you and allows you to determine where the effect 
originates. This can narrow down the origin point of the effect 
to a 5-foot-cube, but not more precisely than that. 


"n 


| 
| 


EQUIPMENT 
ME 


SPELLS 
tr 


E 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


LOCA 


CRAFTING 
B TREASURE 


(OO 
val 


The robe of eyes is not without its dangers. If any spell 
with the light trait is cast on you or your square while you 
are wearing the robe, you are blinded for a number of rounds 
equal to the spell’s level unless you succeed at a Fortitude 
save against the spell's DC. 

Activate *} Interact; Effect You pluck an eye 

from the robe and toss it into the air, 

where it turns invisible and floats to a 

destination you choose, with the same 

effect as a 5th-level prying eye spell. 

You can Sustain the Activation just as 

you would be able to Sustain the Spell. 


ROBE OF THE ARCHMAGI ITEM 15+ 
Usage worn garment; Bulk 1 
Embroidered with fine silver thread in ornate arcane patterns, 
these robes come in one of three colors depending on their 
attuned alignment. Good robes are gold, neutral robes are 
light blue, and evil robes are red. An evil or good robe gains 
the appropriate trait. The robes benefit only characters who 
can cast arcane spells and whose alignment on the good-evil 
axis matches that of the robe. If your alignment does 
not match that of the robe, or you are not an arcane 
spellcaster, you are instead stupefied 2 while 
wearing a robe of the archmagi. This condition 
cant be removed in any way until you 
remove the robe. 

The robes are +2 greater resilient 
explorer's clothing, and they grant a +1 
circumstance bonus to saving throws 
against arcane spells and resistance 5 to 
damage from arcane spells. 

Activate 2 command; Frequency once 
per day; Trigger You attempt a saving 
throw against an arcane spell, but 
you haven't rolled yet; Effect You 
automatically succeed at your save 
against the triggering arcane spell. 

Type robe of the archmagi; Level 15; 
Price 6,500 gp 

Type greater robe of the archmagi; 
Level 19; Price 32,000 gp 

The resistance against arcane spells is 10. 

You can activate the robe when you or an ally 

within 30 feet attempts a saving throw against 

an arcane spell, and the robe grants either you 
or the ally a success on the triggering saving 
throw; you still can activate it only once per day. 

Craft Requirements You are an arcane spellcaster. 


ITEM7 


SLIPPERS OF SPIDER CLIMBING 


INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION | 
Price 325 gp 
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L 
These soft slippers are made of fine gray silk. If the slippers 


are left unattended for a while, they tend to attract spiders 

that nest inside. 

Activate *} command; Frequency once per hour; Effect Tiny, 
hairlike tendrils extend from the slippers' soles, allowing 
you to walk on vertical surfaces or even to move upside 

down along ceilings. For 1 minute, you gain a 

20-foot climb Speed and you don't need 

to use your hands to Climb. However, 

the slippers require decent traction for 

you to walk on a wall, so they provide 

no benefit when you're moving across 
greased, icy, or oiled surfaces. 


THIRD EYE 
| oivination | vesten | i 
Price 40,000 gp 
Usage worn; Bulk — 
When invested, this ornate crown and its incandescent 
gemstone meld into your head and take the form of a tattoo. 
This grants you otherworldly sight and allows you to read 
auras. No one but you can manipulate the third eye while it’s 
invested by you. Your heightened senses and ability to 
sense emotional auras grant you a +3 item bonus to 
Perception checks. 
You continuously see magic auras, as a 9th- 
level detect magic spell, except you see the 
location of all auras within 30 feet, not 
just the strongest. If you use a Seek 
action to study a creature you can see, 
you can perceive an aura that conveys 
knowledge of that creatures health, 
including all conditions and afflictions it 
has and an approximate percentage of its 
remaining Hit Points. 
Activate «9% envision, command; 
Frequency once per day; Effect You 
gain the effects of an 8th-level true 
seeing spell. 


TRACKER'S GOGGLES 


| N | vesten | macicaL 
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk- 
These lenses of forest-green glass are 
bound in rough leather stitched with crude 
twine. While wearing these goggles, you 
gain a +1 bonus to Survival checks to Sense 
Direction and Track. If you fail a check to 
Track, you can try again after 30 minutes 
rather than an hour. 
Type tracker’s goggles; Level 3; Price 
60 gp 
Type greater tracker’s goggles; Level 
9; Price 660 gp 
The goggles grant a +2 bonus. If you fail a 
check to Track, you can try again after 15 minutes 
rather than an hour. 


"A 


ITEM 19 


MAGICAL 


ITEM 3+ 


VENTRILOQUIST'S RING ITEM 3+ 


| ituusion | vesten | MAGICAL | 

Usage worn; Bulk — 

This elegant copper ring has miniature 

images of songbirds engraved around its 

circumference. You gain a +1 item bonus 
to Deception checks. 

Activate *99 Interact; Frequency 
once per day; Effect Twisting the 
ring around your finger allows you to 
magically throw your voice, with the 
effects of a ventriloquism spell (DC 19). 

Type ventriloquist's ring; Level 3; Price 60 gp 

Type greater ventriloquist's ring; Level 9; Price 670 gp 

The ring grants a *2 bonus. When you activate the ring, 

you gain the effects of 2nd-level ventriloquism (DC 27). 

You can activate the ring any number of times per day. 


VOYAGER'S PACK 


ITEM 17 


| UNCOMMON | conjuRATION | INVESTED | MAGICAL 


Price 14,800 gp 

Usage worn backpack; Bulk — 

This leather rucksack has icons burned into it, 

and every time it's taken to a plane it hasn't 

been to before, a new icon representing that 
plane scorches into the surface. The pack 
grants you a +3 bonus to Survival checks. 

It also enables you to see the magical traces 

of creatures’ passage, allowing you to Track a 

creature that has teleported. The GM sets the DC 

of this check, usually using the level and DC of the 
teleportation spell. This lets you find the location of the 
creature's destination, and you can use that destination 
when casting teleport or activating the pack, even though you 
don't know what it looks like. 

The pack contains an extradimensional space with the 
same properties as a type II bag of holding. This space 
contains the contents of a climber's kit. If any components 
of that kit are removed and not returned, they return to the 
pack at dawn each day. 

Activate 10 minutes (command, envision, Interact); Effect As 
you activate the pack, you can harness up to four willing 
creatures to the ropes on the pack. At the end of the 
activation time, the pack casts a 7th-level plane shift or 
teleport spell, transporting you and everyone attached to 
the pack. Attempt a DC 45 Survival check. On a success, 
you arrive 25 miles off target using plane shift or halve 
the distance you're off-target with teleport. On a critical 
Success, you arrive exactly on target. 


WAYFINDER 


ITEM 2 


| UNCOMMON | EvocaTiON | INVESTED | MAGICAL | 
Price 28 gp 
Usage worn; Bulk — 


This compact compass repurposes ancient technology to draw 
fantastic powers from the mysterious magical items called 


aeon stones. It serves as a badge of office for agents of the 
Pathfinder Society and as a status symbol among adventurers 
of any stripe. A wayfinder functions as a compass. 

An indentation in the middle of the wayfinder can hold a 
single aeon stone (page 604). Placing an aeon stone in this 
indentation provides you all the benefits of having the aeon 
stone orbiting your head, but it protects the stone from being 
noticed or stolen as easily. You invest a wayfinder and the 
aeon stone within it simultaneously, and they count as only 
one item toward your investiture limit. An invested aeon stone 
slotted in a wayfinder also grants its resonant power. 
If you have more than one wayfinder with 
an invested aeon stone on your person at a 
given time, destructive interference from 

their resonance prevents you from gaining 

benefits from any of them. You can 
still benefit from additional aeon stones 
orbiting your head, just not in wayfinders. 
Activate *} command; Effect The wayfinder is 
targeted by a 1st-level light spell. 


WHISPER OF THEFIRSTLIE ITEM 20 


| macicar 


RARE | ENCHANTMENT | INVESTED 
Price 60,000 gp 
Usage worn; Bulk — 


This delicate necklace contains 
bottled whispers distilled from a 
source on the Astral Plane rumored to 
be connected to the first lie ever told. 
While wearing the necklace, you gain a *3 
item bonus to Deception checks, and you can 
attempt to counteract effects that would force 
you to tell the truth or determine whether you 
are lying. Success on this counteract attempt lets 
you ignore the effect, rather than removing the effect 
entirely. The counteract level is 9, with a counteract 
modifier of +35. 
Activate 99 Interact, envision, command; Effect You 
unstopper the vial and release the lie, creating the effect of 
afabricated truth (DC 47). The vial is emptied and can never 
be activated again. 
Craft Requirements Supply a casting of fabricated truth. 


WINGED BOOTS ITEM 10 


Í INVESTED | MAGICAL | TRANSMUTATION 

Price 850 gp 

Usage worn shoes; Bulk L 

Made from soft leather, with delicate white wings attached 
to the heel, these boots are ensorcelled with powerful air 
magic. Whenever you fall while wearing these boots, the 
boots automatically cast feather fall on you. This benefit can't 
trigger again for 10 minutes. 

Activate “> command, Interact; Frequency once per day; 
Effect You speak a command word and click the boots' heels 
together to cause the wings to animate and flap rapidly, 
granting you a fly Speed of 30 feet for 10 minutes. 


hs. 


| 
[ 


EQUIPMENT 
E 


SPELLS 
GT 


E 


THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 


— ^c. 
CRAFTING 
& TREASURE 


OJ 
val 


Sudan aS 


eue ums o map eee — 4 
THFIN CORE RULEBOOK j 
i ee ae "i 


CONDITIONS APPENDIX 


While adventuring, characters (and sometimes their belongings) are affected by abilities and 


effects that apply conditions. For example, a spell or magic item might turn you invisible or 
cause you to be gripped by fear. Conditions change your state of being in some way, and they 
represent everything from the attitude other creatures have toward you and how they interact 


with you to what happens when a creature drains your blood or life essence. 


St gg —————————————— 


Conditions are persistent. Whenever you’re affected by 
a condition, its effects last until the condition’s stated 
duration ends, the condition is removed, or terms dictated 
in the condition itself cause it to end. 


CONDITION VALUES 

Some conditions have a numerical value, called a 
condition value, indicated by a numeral following the 
condition. This value conveys the severity of a condition, 
and such conditions often give you a bonus or penalty 
equal to their value. These values can often be reduced by 
skills, spells, or simply waiting. If a condition value is ever 
reduced to 0, the condition ends. 


OVERRIDING CONDITIONS 
Some conditions override others. This is always specified 
in the entry for the overriding condition. When this 
happens, all effects of the overridden condition are 
suppressed until the overriding condition ends. The 
overridden condition’s duration continues to elapse, and 
it might run out while suppressed. 


LIST OF CONDITIONS 
BLINDED 


You can’t see. All normal terrain is difficult terrain to you. 
You can’t detect anything using vision. You automatically 
critically fail Perception checks that require you to be 
able to see, and if vision is your only precise sense, you 
take a —4 status penalty to Perception checks. You are 
immune to visual effects. Blinded overrides dazzled. 


BROKEN 


Broken is a condition that affects objects. An object is 
broken when damage has reduced its Hit Points to equal 
or less than its Broken Threshold. A broken object can’t be 
used for its normal function, nor does it grant bonuses— 
with the exception of armor. Broken armor still grants its 
item bonus to AC, but it also imparts a status penalty to AC 
depending on its category: —1 for broken light armor, -2 for 
broken medium armor, or -3 for broken heavy armor. 

A broken item still imposes penalties and limitations 
normally incurred by carrying, holding, or wearing it. 


For example, broken armor would still impose its Dexterity 
modifier cap, check penalty, and so forth. 

If an effect makes an item broken automatically and the 
item has more HP than its Broken Threshold, that effect 
also reduces the item's current HP to the Broken Threshold. 


CLUMSY 


Your movements become clumsy and inexact. Clumsy 
always includes a value. You take a status penalty equal 
to the condition value to Dexterity-based checks and 
DCs, including AC, Reflex saves, ranged attack rolls, and 
skill checks using Acrobatics, Stealth, and Thievery. 


CONCEALED 


While you are concealed from a creature, such as in a thick 
fog, you are difficult for that creature to see. You can still 
be observed, but you're tougher to target. A creature that 
you're concealed from must succeed at a DC 5 flat check 
when targeting you with an attack, spell, or other effect. 
Area effects aren't subject to this flat check. If the check 
fails, the attack, spell, or effect doesn't affect you. 


CONFUSED 


You don't have your wits about you, and you attack 
wildly. You are flat-footed, you don't treat anyone as your 
ally (though they might still treat you as theirs), and you 
can't Delay, Ready, or use reactions. 

You use all your actions to Strike or cast offensive 
cantrips, though the GM can have you use other actions 
to facilitate attack, such as draw a weapon, move so that a 
target is in reach, and so forth. Your targets are determined 
randomly by the GM. If you have no other viable targets, 
you target yourself, automatically hitting but not scoring a 
critical hit. If it’s impossible for you to attack or cast spells, 
you babble incoherently, wasting your actions. 

Each time you take damage from an attack or spell, 
you can attempt a DC 11 flat check to recover from your 
confusion and end the condition. 


CONTROLLED 


Someone else is making your decisions for you, usually 
because you're being commanded or magically dominated. 
The controller dictates how you act and can make you 
use any of your actions, including attacks, reactions, or 
even Delay. The controller usually does not have to spend 
their own actions when controlling you. 


DAZZLED 


Your eyes are overstimulated. If vision is your only precise 
sense, all creatures and objects are concealed from you. 


DEAFENED 


You can’t hear. You automatically critically fail Perception 
checks that require you to be able to hear. You take a 
—2. status penalty to Perception checks for initiative and 
checks that involve sound but also rely on other senses. If 
you perform an action with the auditory trait, you must 
succeed at a DC 5 flat check or the action is lost; attempt 
the check after spending the action but before any effects 
are applied. You are immune to auditory effects. 


DOOMED 


A powerful force has gripped your soul, calling you 
closer to death. Doomed always includes a value. The 
dying value at which you die is reduced by your doomed 
value. If your maximum dying value is reduced to 0, you 
instantly die. When you die, you’re no longer doomed. 

Your doomed value decreases by 1 each time you get a 
full night’s rest. 


DRAINED 


When a creature successfully drains you of blood or life 
force, you become less healthy. Drained always includes 
a value. You take a status penalty equal to your drained 
value on Constitution-based checks, such as Fortitude 
saves. You also lose a number of Hit Points equal to your 
level (minimum 1) times the drained value, and your 
maximum Hit Points are reduced by the same amount. 
For example, if you’re hit by an effect that inflicts drained 
3 and you’re a 3rd-level character, you lose 9 Hit Points 
and reduce your maximum Hit Points by 9. Losing these 
Hit Points doesn’t count as taking damage. 

Each time you get a full night’s rest, your drained value 
decreases by 1. This increases your maximum Hit Points, 
but you don’t immediately recover the lost Hit Points. 


DYING 


You are bleeding out or otherwise at death’s door. While 
you have this condition, you are unconscious. Dying always 
includes a value, and if it ever reaches dying 4, you die. If 
you're dying, you must attempt a recovery check (page 459) 
at the start of your turn each round to determine whether 
you get better or worse. Your dying condition increases by 1 
if you take damage while dying, or by 2 if you take damage 
from an enemy’s critical hit or a critical failure on your save. 

If you lose the dying condition by succeeding at a 
recovery check and are still at 0 Hit Points, you remain 
unconscious, but you can wake up as described in that 
condition. You lose the dying condition automatically and 
wake up if you ever have 1 Hit Point or more. Any time 
you lose the dying condition, you gain the wounded 1 
condition, or increase your wounded condition value by 1 
if you already have that condition. 


P APPENDIX 


bee 


A 


GROUPS OF CONDITIONS 

Some conditions exist relative to one another or share a 
similar theme. It can be useful to look at these conditions 
together, rather than viewing them in isolation, to 
understand how they interact. 

Degrees of Detection: Observed, hidden, undetected, 
unnoticed 

Senses: Blinded, concealed, dazzled, deafened, invisible 

Death and Dying: Doomed, dying, unconscious, wounded 

Attitudes: Hostile, unfriendly, indifferent, friendly, helpful 

Lowered Abilities: Clumsy, drained, enfeebled, stupefied 


DEATH AND DYING RULES 

The doomed, dying, unconscious, and wounded 
conditions all relate to the process of coming closer to 
death. The full rules are on pages 459-461. The most 
significant information not contained in the conditions 
themselves is this: When you're reduced to O Hit Points, 
you're knocked out with the following effects: 

* You immediately move your initiative position to 
directly before the creature or effect that reduced you 
to O Hit Points. 

* You gain the dying 1 condition. If the effect that 
knocked you out was a critical success from the 
attacker or the result of your critical failure, you 
gain the dying 2 condition instead. If you have the 
wounded condition, increase these values by your 
wounded value. If the damage came from a nonlethal 
attack or effect, you don't gain the dying condition— 
you are instead unconscious with O Hit Points. 


ENCUMBERED 


You are carrying more weight than you can manage. 
While you’re encumbered, you’re clumsy 1 and take a 
10-foot penalty to all your Speeds. As with all penalties 
to your Speed, this can’t reduce your Speed below S feet. 


ENFEEBLED 


You’re physically weakened. Enfeebled always includes a 
value. When you are enfeebled, you take a status penalty 
equal to the condition value to Strength-based rolls 
and DCs, including Strength-based melee attack rolls, 
Strength-based damage rolls, and Athletics checks. 


FASCINATED 


You are compelled to focus your attention on something, 
distracting you from whatever else is going on around 
you. You take a —2 status penalty to Perception and skill 
checks, and you can't use actions with the concentrate 
trait unless they or their intended consequences are 
related to the subject of your fascination (as determined 
by the GM). For instance, you might be able to Seek 
and Recall Knowledge about the subject, but you likely 
couldn't cast a spell targeting a different creature. This 


TN. 


EQUIPMENT 


-SPELLS 
\ 4 

|THE AGE OF 
‘LOST OMENS 


Bus THE 


\FTING 

B TREASURE 
a” 9,0,’ 

| APPENDIX 


“> xX 


Ee I Nate s ETS 


condition ends if a creature uses hostile actions against 
you or any of your allies. 


FATIGUED 


You're tired and can’t summon much energy. You take a 
—1 status penalty to AC and saving throws. You can’t use 
exploration activities performed while traveling, such as 
those on pages 479-480. 

You recover from fatigue after a full night’s rest. 


FLAT-FOOTED 


You’re distracted or otherwise unable to focus your full 
attention on defense. You take a —2 circumstance penalty 
to AC. Some effects give you the flat-footed condition only 
to certain creatures or against certain attacks. Others— 
especially conditions—can make you universally flat- 
footed against everything. If a rule doesn't specify that the 
condition applies only to certain circumstances, it applies 
to all of them; for example, many effects simply say “The 
target is flat-footed." 


FLEEING 


You're forced to run away due to fear or some other 
compulsion. On your turn, you must spend each of your 
actions trying to escape the source of the fleeing condition 
as expediently as possible (such as by using move actions 
to flee, or opening doors barring your escape). The source 
is usually the effect or caster that gave you the condition, 
though some effects might define something else as the 
source. You can't Delay or Ready while fleeing. 


FRIENDLY 


This condition reflects a creature's disposition toward a 
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like a 
spell) can impose this condition on a PC. A creature that 
is friendly to a character likes that character. The character 
can attempt to make a Request of a friendly creature, and 
the friendly creature is likely to agree to a simple and safe 
request that doesn't cost it much to fulfill. If the character or 
one of their allies uses hostile actions against the creature, 
the creature gains a worse attitude condition depending on 
the severity of the hostile action, as determined by the GM. 


FRIGHTENED 


You’re gripped by fear and struggle to control your nerves. 
The frightened condition always includes a value. You take 
a status penalty equal to this value to all your checks and 
DCs. Unless specified otherwise, at the end of each of your 
turns, the value of your frightened condition decreases by 1. 


GRABBED 


You're held in place by another creature, giving you the 
flat-footed and immobilized conditions. If you attempt a 
manipulate action while grabbed, you must succeed at a 
DC 5 flat check or it is lost; roll the check after spending 
the action, but before any effects are applied. 


HELPFUL 


This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a 
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like a 
spell) can impose this condition on a PC. A creature that is 
helpful to a character wishes to actively aid that character. 
It will accept reasonable Requests from that character, as 
long as such requests aren’t at the expense of the helpful 
creature’s goals or quality of life. If the character or one 
of their allies uses a hostile action against the creature, the 
creature gains a worse attitude condition depending on the 
severity of the hostile action, as determined by the GM. 


HIDDEN 


While you’re hidden from a creature, that creature knows 
the space you’re in but can’t tell precisely where you are. 
You typically become hidden by using Stealth to Hide. When 
Seeking a creature using only imprecise senses, it remains 
hidden, rather than observed. A creature you’re hidden from 
is flat-footed to you, and it must succeed at a DC 11 flat check 
when targeting you with an attack, spell, or other effect or it 
fails to affect you. Area effects aren’t subject to this flat check. 

A creature might be able to use the Seek action to try to 
observe you, as described on page 471. 


HOSTILE 


This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a 
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like a 
spell) can impose on a PC. A creature hostile to a character 
actively seeks to harm that character. It doesn't necessarily 
attack, but it won't accept Requests from the character. 


IMMOBILIZED 


You can’t use any action with the move trait. If you’re 
immobilized by something holding you in place and an 
external force would move you out of your space, the 
force must succeed at a check against either the DC of the 
effect holding you in place or the relevant defense (usually 
Fortitude DC) of the monster holding you in place. 


INDIFFERENT 


This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a 
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like a 
spell) can impose this condition on a PC. A creature that is 
indifferent to a character doesn’t really care one way or the 
other about that character. Assume a creature’s attitude to 
a given character is indifferent unless specified otherwise. 


INVISIBLE 


While invisible, you can’t be seen. You’re undetected to 
everyone. Creatures can Seek to attempt to detect you; if 
a creature succeeds at its Perception check against your 
Stealth DC, you become hidden to that creature until 
you Sneak to become undetected again. If you become 
invisible while someone can already see you, you start 
out hidden to the observer (instead of undetected) until 
you successfully Sneak. You can’t become observed while 


invisible except via special abilities or magic. 


OBSERVED 


Anything in plain view is observed by you. If a creature 
takes measures to avoid detection, such as by using Stealth 
to Hide, it can become hidden or undetected instead of 
observed. If you have another precise sense instead of or in 
addition to sight, you might be able to observe a creature or 
object using that sense instead. You can observe a creature 
only with precise senses. When Seeking a creature using only 
imprecise senses, it remains hidden, rather than observed. 


PARALYZED 


You are frozen in place. You have the flat-footed condition 
and can’t act except to Recall Knowledge and use actions 
that require only your mind (as determined by the GM). 
Your senses still function, but only in the areas you can 
perceive without moving, so you can’t Seek while paralyzed. 


PERSISTENT DAMAGE 


Persistent damage comes from effects like acid, being on 
fire, or many other situations. It appears as ^X persistent 
[type] damage,” where “X” is the amount of damage dealt 
and “[type]” is the damage type. Like normal damage, it 
can be doubled or halved based on the results of an attack 
roll or saving throw. Instead of taking persistent damage 
immediately, you take it at the end of each of your turns 
as long as you have the condition, rolling any damage dice 
anew each time. After you take persistent damage, roll a 
DC 15 flat check to see if you recover from the persistent 
damage. If you succeed, the condition ends. 


PETRIFIED 


You have been turned to stone. You can’t act, nor can 
you sense anything. You become an object with a Bulk 
double your normal Bulk (typically 12 for a petrified 
Medium creature or 6 for a petrified Small creature), AC 9, 
Hardness 8, and the same current Hit Points you had when 
alive. You don’t have a Broken Threshold. When you’re 
turned back into flesh, you have the same number of Hit 
Points you had as a statue. If the statue is destroyed, you 
immediately die. While petrified, your mind and body are 
in stasis, so you don’t age or notice the passing of time. 


PRONE 


You’re lying on the ground. You are flat-footed and take 
a —2 circumstance penalty to attack rolls. The only move 
actions you can use while you’re prone are Crawl and 
Stand. Standing up ends the prone condition. You can Take 
Cover while prone to hunker down and gain greater cover 
against ranged attacks, even if you don’t have an object to 
get behind, gaining a +4 circumstance bonus to AC against 
ranged attacks (but you remain flat-footed). 

If you would be knocked prone while you’re Climbing 
or Flying, you fall (see pages 463—464 for the rules on 
falling). You can’t be knocked prone when Swimming. 


$ APPENDIX 


i. — 2 m 


PERSISTENT DAMAGE RULES 
The additional rules presented below apply to persistent 
damage in certain cases. 

Persistent damage runs its course and automatically 
ends after a certain amount of time as fire burns out, 
blood clots, and the like. The GM determines when this 
occurs, but it usually takes 1 minute. 


Assisted Recovery 

You can take steps to help yourself recover from persistent 

damage, or an ally can help you, allowing you to attempt 

an additional flat check before the end of your turn. This 
is usually an activity requiring 2 actions, and it must be 
something that would reasonably improve your chances 

(as determined by the GM). For example, you might try to 

smother a flame or wash off acid. This allows you to attempt 

an extra flat check immediately, but only once per round. 
The GM decides how your help works, using the 

following examples as guidelines when theres not a 

specific action that applies. 

* The action to help might require a skill check or another 
roll to determine its effectiveness. 

* Reduce the DC of the flat check to 10 for a particularly 
appropriate type of help, such as dousing you in water to 
put out flames. 

* Automatically end the condition due to the type of help, 
such as healing that restores you to your maximum HP 
to end persistent bleed damage, or submerging yourself 
in a lake to end persistent fire damage. 

* Alter the number of actions required to help you if 
the means the helper uses are especially efficient or 
remarkably inefficient. 


Immunities, Resistances, and Weaknesses 
Immunities, resistances, and weaknesses all apply to 
persistent damage. If an effect deals initial damage 
in addition to persistent damage, apply immunities, 
resistances, and weaknesses separately to the initial 
damage and to the persistent damage. Usually, if an 
effect negates the initial damage, it also negates the 
persistent damage, such as with a slashing weapon that 
also deals persistent bleed damage because it cut you. 
The GM might rule otherwise in some situations. 


Multiple Persistent Damage Conditions 

You can be simultaneously affected by multiple persistent 
damage conditions so long as they have different damage 
types. If you would gain more than one persistent damage 
condition with the same damage type, the higher amount 
of damage overrides the lower amount. The damage you 
take from persistent damage occurs all at once, so if 
something triggers when you take damage, it triggers 
only once; for example, if you're dying with several types 
of persistent damage, the persistent damage increases 
your dying condition only once. 


Ec 


SPELLS 


n 


THE AGE OF 


LOST OMENS 
i PLAYING THE 
GAME 


` 


- GAME 


3 Aur 


. & TREASURE 


ne eme DOO ey ae A 


YATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 


EI a aile er al s VA 7 oe | 


GAINING AND LOSING ACTIONS 
Quickened, slowed, and stunned are the primary ways 
you can gain or lose actions on a turn. The rules for 
how this works appear on page 462. In brief, these 
conditions alter how many actions you regain at the 
start of your turn; thus, gaining the condition in the 
middle of your turn doesn’t adjust your number of 
actions on that turn. If you have conflicting conditions 
that affect your number of actions, you choose which 
actions you lose. For instance, the action gained from 
haste lets you only Stride or Strike, so if you need to 
lose one action because you're also slowed, you might 
decide to lose the action from haste, letting you keep 
your other actions that can be used more flexibly. 

Some conditions prevent you from taking a certain 
subset of actions, typically reactions. Other conditions 
simply say you cant act. When you can't act, you're 
unable to take any actions at all. Unlike slowed or 
stunned, these don't change the number of actions you 
regain; they just prevent you from using them. That 
means if you are somehow cured of paralysis on your 
turn, you can act immediately. 


QUICKENED 


You gain 1 additional action at the start of your turn each 
round. Many effects that make you quickened specify the 
types of actions you can use with this additional action. 
If you become quickened from multiple sources, you can 
use the extra action you've been granted for any single 
action allowed by any of the effects that made you 
quickened. Because quickened has its effect at the start 
of your turn, you don't immediately gain actions if you 
become quickened during your turn. 


RESTRAINED 


You're tied up and can barely move, or a creature has 
you pinned. You have the flat-footed and immobilized 
conditions, and you can't use any actions with the attack 
or manipulate traits except to attempt to Escape or Force 
Open your bonds. Restrained overrides grabbed. 


SICKENED 


You feel ill. Sickened always includes a value. You take 
a status penalty equal to this value on all your checks 
and DCs. You can’t willingly ingest anything—including 
elixirs and potions—while sickened. 

You can spend a single action retching in an attempt to 
recover, which lets you immediately attempt a Fortitude 
save against the DC of the effect that made you sickened. 
On a success, you reduce your sickened value by 1 (or by 
2 on a critical success). 


SLOWED 


You have fewer actions. Slowed always includes a value. 
When you regain your actions at the start of your turn, 


reduce the number of actions you regain by your slowed 
value. Because slowed has its effect at the start of your 
turn, you don’t immediately lose actions if you become 
slowed during your turn. 


STUNNED 


You’ve become senseless. You can’t act while stunned. 
Stunned usually includes a value, which indicates how 
many total actions you lose, possibly over multiple turns, 
from being stunned. Each time you regain actions (such 
as at the start of your turn), reduce the number you regain 
by your stunned value, then reduce your stunned value 
by the number of actions you lost. For example, if you 
were stunned 4, you would lose all 3 of your actions on 
your turn, reducing you to stunned 1; on your next turn, 
you would lose 1 more action, and then be able to use 
your remaining 2 actions normally. Stunned might also 
have a duration instead of a value, such as “stunned for 
1 minute.” In this case, you lose all your actions for the 
listed duration. 

Stunned overrides slowed. If the duration of your 
stunned condition ends while you are slowed, you count 
the actions lost to the stunned condition toward those lost 
to being slowed. So, if you were stunned 1 and slowed 2 
at the beginning of your turn, you would lose 1 action 
from stunned, and then lose only 1 additional action by 
being slowed, so you would still have 1 action remaining 
to use that turn. 


STUPEFIED 


Your thoughts and instincts are clouded. Stupefied always 
includes a value. You take a status penalty equal to this 
value on Intelligence-, Wisdom-, and Charisma-based 
checks and DCs, including Will saving throws, spell 
attack rolls, spell DCs, and skill checks that use these 
ability scores. Any time you attempt to Cast a Spell while 
stupefied, the spell is disrupted unless you succeed at a 
flat check with a DC equal to 5 + your stupefied value. 


UNCONSCIOUS 


You’re sleeping, or you’ve been knocked out. You can’t 
act. You take a —4 status penalty to AC, Perception, and 
Reflex saves, and you have the blinded and flat-footed 
conditions. When you gain this condition, you fall prone 
and drop items you are wielding or holding unless the 
effect states otherwise or the GM determines you’re in a 
position in which you wouldn't. 

If you're unconscious because you're dying, you can't 
wake up while you have 0 Hit Points. If you are restored 
to 1 Hit Point or more via healing, you lose the dying and 
unconscious conditions and can act normally on your 
next turn. 

If you are unconscious and at 0 Hit Points, but not 
dying, you naturally return to 1 Hit Point and awaken 
after sufficient time passes. The GM determines how long 
you remain unconscious, from a minimum of 10 minutes 


to several hours. If you receive healing during this time, 
you lose the unconscious condition and can act normally 
on your next turn. 

If you’re unconscious and have more than 1 Hit Point 
(typically because you are asleep or unconscious due to 
an effect), you wake up in one of the following ways. 
Each causes you to lose the unconscious condition. 

* You take damage, provided the damage doesn’t 
reduce you to 0 Hit Points. If the damage reduces 
you to 0 Hit Points, you remain unconscious and 
gain the dying condition as normal. 

e You receive healing, other than the natural healing 
you get from resting. 

* Someone shakes you awake with an Interact action. 

* There's loud noise going on around you—though 
this isn't automatic. At the start of your turn, you 
automatically attempt a Perception check against 
the noise's DC (or the lowest DC if there is more 
than one noise), waking up if you succeed. If 
creatures are attempting to stay quiet around you, 
this Perception check uses their Stealth DCs. Some 
magical effects make you sleep so deeply that they 
don't allow you to attempt this Perception check. 

* [f you are simply asleep, the GM decides you wake 
up either because you have had a restful night's 
sleep or something disrupted that rest. 


UNDETECTED 


When you are undetected by a creature, that creature 
cannot see you at all, has no idea what space you occupy, 
and can’t target you, though you still can be affected by 
abilities that target an area. When you’re undetected by a 
creature, that creature is flat-footed to you. 

A creature you’re undetected by can guess which square 
you're in to try targeting you. It must pick a square and 
attempt an attack. This works like targeting a hidden 
creature (requiring a DC 11 flat check, as described on 
page 466), but the flat check and attack roll are rolled in 
secret by the GM, who doesn’t reveal whether the attack 
missed due to failing the flat check, failing the attack roll, 
or choosing the wrong square. 

A creature can use the Seek action to try to find you, as 
described on page 471. 


UNFRIENDLY 


This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a 
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like a 
spell) can impose this condition on a PC. A creature that 
is unfriendly to a character dislikes and specifically 
distrusts that character. The unfriendly creature won’t 
accept Requests from the character. 


UNNOTICED 


If you are unnoticed by a creature, that creature has no 
idea you are present at all. When you’re unnoticed, you’re 
also undetected by the creature. This condition matters 


T. s " - = 


APPENDIX 


es 


REDUNDANT CONDITIONS 
You can have a given condition only once at a time. If 
an effect would impose a condition you already have, 
you now have that condition for the longer of the two 
durations. The shorter-duration condition effectively 
ends, though other conditions caused by the original, 
shorter-duration effect might continue. 

For example, let’s say you have been hit by a monster 
that drains your vitality; your wound causes you to be 
enfeebled 2 and flat-footed until the end of the monster's 
next turn. Before the end of that creatures next turn, a 
trap poisons you, making you enfeebled 2 for 1 minute. In 
this case, the enfeebled 2 that lasts for 1 minute replaces 
the enfeebled 2 from the monster, so you would be 
enfeebled 2 for the longer duration. You would remain 
flat-footed, since nothing replaced that condition, and it 
still lasts only until the end of the monster's next turn. 

Any ability that removes a condition removes it 
entirely, no matter what its condition value is or how 
many times you've been affected by it. In the example 
above, a spell that removes the enfeebled condition from 
you would remove it entirely—the spell wouldn't need to 
remove it twice. 


Redundant Conditions with Values 
Conditions with different values are considered different 
conditions. If you're affected by a condition with a 
value multiple times, you apply only the highest value, 
although you might have to track both durations if one 
has a lower value but lasts longer. For example, if you 
had a slowed 2 condition that lasts 1 round and a slowed 
1 condition that lasts for 6 rounds, you'd be slowed 2 for 
the first round, and then you'd change to slowed 1 for 
the remaining 5 rounds of the second effect's duration. If 
something reduces the condition value, it reduces it for 
all conditions of that name affecting you. For instance, in 
this example above, if something reduced your slowed 
value by 1, it would reduce the first condition from the 
example to slowed 1 and reduce the second to slowed O, 
removing it. 


for abilities that can be used only against targets totally 
unaware of your presence. 


WOUNDED 


You have been seriously injured. If you lose the dying 
condition and do not already have the wounded 
condition, you become wounded 1. If you already 
have the wounded condition when you lose the dying 
condition, your wounded condition value increases by 1. 
If you gain the dying condition while wounded, increase 
your dying condition value by your wounded value. 

The wounded condition ends if someone successfully 
restores Hit Points to you with Treat Wounds, or if you 
are restored to full Hit Points and rest for 10 minutes. 


- THE AGE OF 
LOST OMENS 


B TREASURE 


CHARACTER ANCESTRY AND HERITAGE 


NAME 


i CHARACTER BACKGROUND 
SHEET 


PROFICIENCY +> Single Action crass HERO POINTS 
Untrained +0 *> Two-Action Activity NAME 

deum +> Three-Action Activity [ue | ALIGNMENT TRAITS 

Master 6+Level € Free Action EXPERIENCE — 

Legendary 8+Level 2 Reaction POINTS (XP) 


ARMOR CLASS HIT POINTS 


DCBASE pp DEX CAES PROF 1 TEMPORARY 


EL LODNNv [. 


ripam 
DYING | WOUNDED 


Shield Dr y HARDNESS) MAX HP mE dd DLL RESISTANCES AND IMMUNITIES 


mA 


ABILITY SCORES 
STR STRENGTH 


MODIFIER SCORE 


DEX DEXTERITY 


MODIFIER SCORE 


CON CONSTITUTION 


MODIFIER SCORE 


INT INTELLIGENCE 


MODIFIER SCORE 


WIS WISDOM 


MODIFIER SCORE 


CHA CHARISMA 


MODIFIER SCORE 


SAVING THROWS 
REFLEX 


CONDITIONS 


PERCEPTION 
WIS | PROF ITEM 


TIE MIL 
| LL 


CLASS caue 


zl 0 KEY PROF ITEM 


ITEM ARMOR 


MELEE STRIKES 


PROF 


ARCANA QD = i RN nama 


PROF 


ATHLETICS QD = E E 


PROF 


CRAFTING QD = [| | 


PROF 


DECEPTION QD = E ae 


PROF 


DIPLOMACY QD - p Ls 


PROF 


INTIMIDATION QD = E e 
or: QES- RN 


= 


ENERO: GD - pin NN 


WIS PROF 


ITEM 


STR 


ITEM ARMOR 
200000000000 


DAMAGE © 
DICE 


WEAPON 


DAMAGE 5600000000000000006 
DICE Ww SPEC 


RANGED STRIKES 


DAMAGE 
DICE SPECIAL MIB WSPEC TRAITS 


= = = 
ms 
WEAPON 


DAMAGE ^«^ 
DICE SPECIAL MiB WSPEC 


| HE D 
ms 


WEAPON 


DAMAGE 
DICE SPECIAL MIB WSPEC TRAITS 


E: 
WEAPON PROFICIENCIES 


SIMPE MARTIAL qum 


OTHER 
IEEE MEEN A t N =: s: E; 
TIL. TIL TIL 


MEDICINE BH [| a 


WIS PROF 


md rI 


PROF 


OCCULTISM EB - ES ia 


PROF 


PERFORMANCE ap - ES [3 


DEX PROF 


sud HM [| | 


ARMOR 


ITEM ARMOR 


LANGUAGES 


CLASS FEATS AND ABILITIES 
FEATURE sr 


FEATURE isr 
FEAT 1st 

FEAT 2w» 
FEATURE 3n» 
FEAT 4r 
FEATURE 5r 
FEAT 61« 
FEATURE 71 
FEAT 8r 
FEATURE 911 
FEAT 10r 
FEATURE fri 
FEAT 12 
FEATURE 13r 
FEAT 14m 
FEATURE 15r 
FEAT 16m 
FEATURE 171« 
FEAT 18m 
FEATURE 19r 
FEAT 20m 


ANCESTRY FEATS AND ABILITIES 
SPECIAL {sr 


BONUS FEATS 


WORN ITEMS BULK [f] OTHER ITEMS 


ENCUMBERED 
BASE STR 
\ MAXIMUM 
cP SP GP PP 


BASE _ STR 


uU | 


Permission granted to photocopy for personal use only. 


CHARACTER SKETCH 


ETHNICITY NATIONALITY BIRTHPLACE p] GENDER & PRONOUNS E EM 
APPEARANCE 
PERSONALITY 
ATTITUDE 
LIKES 


CATCHPHRASES 


CAMPAIGN NOTES 


i T 
ORGANIZATIONS 


ACTIONS AND ACTIVITIES 


C ii p p cea ai m 


DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION 
oe E a LEN inus E lai 


DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION 
ET Fr E S o O aa u m 


DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION 


FREE ACTIONS AND REACTIONS 


[ [iiid HIE TRAITS IIFREE ACTION TRAITS 
Wi REACTION Wi REACTION 


TRIGGER TRIGGER 
DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION 


[ [i33 un TRAITS IIFREE ACTION TRAITS 
Wi REACTION [ REACTION 

TRIGGER TRIGGER 

DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION 


Permission granted to photocopy for personal use only. 


wu 


SPELL SLOTS PER DAY 


LEVEL 


SPONTANEOUS SPELL SLOTS REMAINING 
SPELLS 


SPELL ATTACK ROLL 


KEY PROF 


SPELL DC 


DCBASE _ KEY PROF 


ACTIONS ACTIONS 


ARCANE 


EMES EV 


PRIMAL DIVINE 


ACTIONS 


EM 


[| 
< 


| prepareo =} SPONTANEOUS 
CANTRIPS 


ACTIONS 


NMNESNEV 
DEREN 52 


——VA : 


EMES EV 
o os 


CHR 


EMES HEV 
PREP 


ACTIONS 


ACTIONS 


ACTIONS 


j| 


ACTIONS 


EMES EV 


ACTIONS 


EMES EV 


ACTIONS 


EMES EV 


ACTIONS 


EMESHV 


m 


ACTIONS 


FOCUS SPELLS 


CURRENT MAXIMUM 


FOCUS POINTS | e] | o] 


ACTIONS = pu 
a v KEEN EMES HEV 
o P 10 D 


EMES EV 
rr” o 


D |. 


ACTIONS 


EMES HV 


ACTIONS ACTIONS 


E 
EM v 


w 
= 


Permission granted to photocopy for personal use only. 


w 


x) PATHFINDER 


A eoe NIIT me epo AO e 


CORE RULEBOOK j 
ar re f 


a iie a iA e 


GLOSSARY AND INDEX 


This appendix contains page references for essential rules of the game, full definitions for 
most traits, and partial definitions and calculations for many other rules. 


— A$ ti gg § 2 


aberration (trait) Aberrations are creatures from beyond the planes or corruptions 
of the natural order. 
ability This is a general term referring to rules that provide an exception to the basic 
rules. An ability could come from a number of sources, so "an ability that gives you 
a bonus to damage rolls” could be a feat, a spell, and so on. 
ability boost An ability boost allows you to increase one of your ability scores by 2, 
or by 1 if the ability score was already 18 or higher. When you get more than one 
ability boost at once, you must apply each to a different score. 20 
ability flaw An ability flaw decreases one of your ability scores by 2. 20, 26 
ability modifier A value added to calculations based on your ability score. 20 
ability score Each creature has six ability scores: Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, 
Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma. These scores represent a creatures raw 
potential and basic attributes. 12, 19-20, 24, 26 
key ability (class) 67 
key ability (skill) 233 
retraining 481, 502 
rolling ability scores (alternative rule) 20 
abjuration (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated with the 
abjuration school of magic, typically involving protection or wards. 297 
AC (Armor Class) See also Armor Class. 12, 29, 274, 447 
acid (damage type) 452. 
acid (trait) Effects with this trait deal acid damage. Creatures with this trait have a 
connection to magical acid. 
Acrobatics (skill) Perform tasks requiring coordination and grace. (Dex) 240-241 
actions Discrete tasks that generate a specific effect, possibly requiring a check to 
determine the result. Actions can be used to accomplish a variety of things, such 
as moving, attacking, casting a spell, or interacting with an item or object. Most 
creatures can use up to 3 actions during their turn. 17, 461-463 
hostile actions 305 
single action (*9) See also single action. 47 
Activate an Item (activity) You provide specified components to activate an alchemical 
or magical item. The number of actions this takes varies by item. 532-533 
activity A category of action that typically takes more than a single action. Activities 
on your turn take 2 actions (3999) or 3 actions (8999). Exploration and downtime 
activities can take minutes, hours, or days. 17, 461-462 
exploration activities 479-480 
in encounters 472 
adamantine (material) 5/8 
additive (trait) 75 
Administer First Aid 9 (skill action) Stabilize a dying creature or stanch bleeding. 
(Medicine) 248 
advancement speed 509 
adventure A single narrative-including the setup, plot, and conclusion. The player 
characters play through an adventure over the course of one or more game 
sessions, and the adventure might be part of a larger campaign. 
using adventures (GM) 486-489 
aerial combat 478 
Affix a Talisman (activity) Activity used to attach a talisman to an item. 565 
affliction An affliction can affect a creature for a long time, over several different 
stages. The most common kinds are curses, diseases, and poisons. 457-458 
agile (weapon trait) 282 
Aid 2 (basic action) Grant a bonus to an ally's skill check or attack roll. 470 
air (trait) Effects with the air trait either manipulate or conjure air. Those that 
manipulate air have no effect in a vacuum or an area without air. Creatures with 
this trait consist primarily of air or have a connection to magical air. 
alchemical (trait) Alchemical items are powered by reactions of alchemical reagents. 
Alchemical items aren't magical and don't radiate a magical aura. 543-554 
alchemist (class) 70-81 
alchemical items 543-554 
multiclass archetype 220 
alchemist (trait) This indicates abilities from the alchemist class. 


alignment Alignment represents a creature's basic moral and ethical attitude on a 
law-to-chaos axis and a good-to-evil axis. 12, 28-29 
alignment (damage type) An umbrella category of damage including chaotic, evil, 
good, and lawful damage. 452 
ally An ally is someone on your side. You are not counted as your own ally. 456 
ammunition 280, 559-561 
anathema When a character violates restrictions on their behavior imposed by 
the source of their power, they can lose related abilities. 86-87, 106, 118, 130 
ancestry A broad family of people that a creature belongs to. Each player character 
chooses an ancestry as the first step of character creation. 12, 22, 24-25, 32-59 
angel (trait) This family of celestials is native to the plane of Nirvana. Most angels 
are neutral good, have darkvision, and have a weakness to evil damage. 
animal (trait) An animal is a creature with a relatively low intelligence. It typically 
doesnt have an Intelligence ability modifier over -4, can't speak languages, and 
cant be trained in Intelligence-based skills. 
animal companion 214-217 
apex (trait) When you Invest an Item that has the apex trait, it improves one of your 
ability scores, either increasing it by 2 or to a total of 18, whichever grants the higher 
score. This gives you all the benefits of the new ability score until the investiture 
ends. An apex item grants this benefit only the first time it's invested within a 24- 
hour period, and you can benefit from only one apex item at a time. If you attempt to 
invest an apex item when you already have one invested, you don't gain the ability 
score increase, though you do gain any other effects of Investing the Item. 603-604 
aquatic combat 478 
Arcana (skill) Know things about arcane magic and creatures. (Int) 241 
arcane (trait) This magic comes from the arcane tradition, which is built on logic 
and rationality. Anything with this trait is magical. 299 
arcane spell list 307-309 
archetype A special additional theme for your character that you can choose using 
your class feats. 219-231 
archetype (trait) This feat belongs to an archetype. 219 
archon (trait) Members of this family of celestials are the protectors of Heaven and 
are lawful good. They have darkvision and a weakness to evil damage. 
area A specified shape and size of an effect. 304, 456-457 
armor 274-276 
magical and special armor 555-558 
runes 580-583 
Armor Class (AC) This score represents how hard it is to hit and damage a creature. 
It typically serves as the DC to hit a creature with an attack. AC = 10 + Dex 
modifier (up to your armor's Dex Cap) + proficiency bonus + armor's item bonus 
to AC + other bonuses + penalties. 12, 29, 274, 447 
Arrest a Fall > (specialty basic action) Use Acrobatics to slow your fall while 
flying. 472 
astral (trait) Astral creatures are native of the Astral Plane. They can survive the 
basic environmental effects of the Astral Plane. 
Athletics (skill) Perform deeds of physical prowess. (Str) 241-243 
attached (weapon trait) 282 
attack When a creature tries to harm another creature, it makes a Strike or uses another 
attack action. Most attacks require an attack roll and target Armor Class. Melee 
attack roll modifier = Str modifier (or optionally Dex modifier for a finesse weapon) + 
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties; Ranged attack roll modifier = Dex 
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties. 27, 278, 446-447 
Aid (reaction used to grant a bonus to an ally's attack roll) 470 
critical hits 445-446, 451, 471 
multiple attack penalty (-5 on your second attack, -10 on further attacks) 446 
nonlethal attack 453 
spell attack roll 305, 447-448 
Strike (action) 471 
unarmed attack 278 
attack (trait) An ability with this trait involves an attack. For each attack you make 
beyond the first on your turn, you take a multiple attack penalty. 12, 446-447 


Attack of Opportunity = A reaction fighters and some other characters gain. 142, 473 
auditory (trait) Auditory actions and effects rely on sound. An action with the auditory 
trait can be successful only if the creature using the action can speak or otherwise 
produce the required sounds. A spell or effect with the auditory trait has its effect 
only if the target can hear it. This applies only to sound-based parts of the effect, as 
determined by the GM. This is different from a sonic effect, which still affects targets 
who can't hear it (such as deaf targets) as long as the effect itself makes sound. 
aura An aura is an emanation that continually ebbs out from you, affecting creatures 
within a certain radius. Aura can also refer to the magical signature of an item or a 
creature with a strong alignment. 
Avert Gaze * (specialty basic action) Get a +2 bonus against visual abilities. 472 
Avoid Notice (exploration activity) Use Stealth to move without being detected. 479 
azata (trait) This family of celestials is native to Elysium. They are typically chaotic 
good and have darkvision and a weakness to evil and cold iron. 
background The experiences your character had before becoming an adventurer. Each 
player character chooses a background during character creation. 12, 25, 60-64 
backstabber (weapon trait) 282 
backswing (weapon trait) 282 
Balance * (skill action) Move on a narrow or unstable surface. (Acrobatics) 240 
barbarian (class) 82-93 
multiclass archetype 221 
barbarian (trait) This indicates abilities from the barbarian class. 
bard (class) 94-103 
composition spells 97, 386-387 
multiclass archetype 222 
occult spell list 311-314 
bard (trait) This indicates abilities from the bard class. 
basic action An action all creatures can use. 469-472 
beast (trait) A creature similar to an animal but with an Intelligence modifier of -3 or 
higher is usually a beast. Unlike an animal, a beast might be able to speak and reason. 
bleed (damage type) A type of persistent damage. 452 
blinded (condition) You're unable to see. 618 
bludgeoning (damage type) A type of physical damage. 452 
bomb (trait) An alchemical bomb combines volatile alchemical components that 
explode when the bomb hits a creature or object. Most alchemical bombs deal 
damage, though some produce other effects. 544-546 
bonus A positive value added to a calculation. Add only the highest bonus of a single 
type (circumstance, item, status). 12, 444-445 
Borrow an Arcane Spell (skill action) Temporarily gain access to an arcane spell. 
(Arcana, trained) 241 
bright light You can see normally in bright light. 464 
broken (condition) This item can't be used for its normal function until repaired. 618 
Broken Threshold (BT) When an object’s HP reaches this number, it becomes 
broken. 272-273 
Bulk A value indicating an items size, weight, and general awkwardness. It takes 
10 items of light Bulk to equal 1 Bulk, and 1,000 coins are 1 Bulk. A character 
becomes encumbered if they carry Bulk greater than 5 + their Str modifier, and 
they can't carry more than 10 + their Str modifier. 29, 271-272 
conversion to different sizes 295 
creature (Tiny 1, Small 3, Medium 6, Large 12, Huge 24, Gargantuan 48) 272 
bulwark (armor trait) 274 
Burrow *> (specialty basic action) Move up to your burrow Speed. 472 
burrow Speed 463 
burst (area) 456-457 
campaign A serialized story focusing on a single party of characters and taking place 
over multiple adventures. 9, 483-486 
cantrip (trait) A spell you can cast at will that is automatically heightened to half your 
level rounded up. 300 
Cast a Spell (activity) You provide magical components to cast a magical spell. The 
number of actions this takes varies by spell. 302-303 
celestial (trait) Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection to the good-aligned 
planes are called celestials. Celestials can survive the basic environmental effects 
of planes in the Outer Sphere. 
champion (class) 104-115 
deities 437-440 
devotion spells 108, 387-388 
multiclass archetype 223 
champion (trait) This indicates abilities from the champion class. 


e GLOSSARY AND I 
i, na — eo 


chaotic (damage type) 452 
chaotic (trait) Chaotic effects often manipulate energy from chaos-aligned Outer 
Planes and are anathema to lawful divine servants or divine servants of lawful 
deities. A creature with this trait is chaotic in alignment. 
character This term is synonymous with creature, but is more often used to refer to 
player characters and nonplayer characters than monsters. 8-9, 19-30 
character creation 19-30 
character sheet Formatted pages on which you can record your character choices, 
statistics, feats, spells, and details. 24-25, 624-627 
Charisma (Cha) This ability score measures your charm and force of personality. 19 
Check When you roll a d20 and add modifiers, bonuses, and penalties, then compare 
your result to a Difficulty Class, you're attempting a check. 10, 443-450 
check penalty (penalty to skill checks imposed by armor) 274 
degrees of success (critical success, success, failure, critical failure) 445-446 
flat check 450 
recovery check (while dying) 459 
secret check 234, 450 
circumstance bonus A bonus that comes from a situation. 444-445 
circumstance penalty A penalty that comes from a situation. 445 
class The adventuring profession chosen by a character. Each player character picks 
a class during character creation. 12, 22-23, 25-26, 66-213 
class DC A class DC sets the difficulty for some abilities granted by your character's 
class. Class DC = 10 + proficiency bonus + key ability modifier. 29 
class feature Any ability granted by a class is a class feature. These mainly consist of 
class feats and other abilities specific to the class. 68 
cleric (class) 116-127 
deities and domains 118, 437-441 
divine spell list 309-311 
domain spells 389-399 
multiclass archetype 224 
cleric (trait) This indicates abilities from the cleric class. 
climate 517-518 
Climb ¢ (skill action) Move along an incline or vertical surface. (Athletics) 241-242 
climb Speed 463 
clumsy (condition) You can’t move as easily or gracefully as usual. 618 
Coerce (skill action) Make someone do what you want. (Intimidation) 247 
coins 27 
cold (damage type) 452 
cold (trait) Effects with this trait deal cold damage. Creatures with this trait have a 
connection to magical cold. 
cold iron (material) 578 
combat See also encounter. 468-478 
comfort (armor trait) 275 
command (item activation component) 533 
Command an Animal ¢ (skill action) Get an animal to obey you. (Nature) 249 
common (trait) Anything that doesn't list another rarity trait (uncommon, rare, or 
unique) automatically has the common trait. This rarity indicates that an ability, 
item, or spell is available to all players who meet the prerequisites for it. 13 
companion (trait) An item with this trait can be worn by an animal companion or 
similar creature. A companion can have up to two items invested. 604 
complex (trait) A hazard with this trait takes turns in an encounter. 520-521, 526-529 
component A process used to Cast a Spell or Activate an Item. 303, 532-533 
composition (trait) To cast a composition cantrip or focus spell, you usually use a 
type of Performance. If the spell includes a verbal component, you must use an 
auditory performance, and if it includes a somatic component, you must use a 
visual one. The spell gains all the traits of the performance you used. You can 
cast only one composition spell each turn, and you can have only one active at a 
time. If you cast a new composition spell, any ongoing effects from your previous 
composition spell end immediately. 97, 99, 386-387 
Conceal an Object * (skill action) Hide an object on your person. (Stealth) 251 
concealed (condition) Low visibility makes you difficult to target. 467, 618 
concentrate (trait) An action with this trait requires a degree of mental concentration 
and discipline. 
condition An ongoing effect that changes how a character can act or alters some of 
their statistics. 12, 453, 454, 618-623 
cone (area) 457 
confused (condition) You attack indiscriminately. 618 
conjuration (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated. with 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 
ME 
|. THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


— B TREASURE 
-— —Q OCA 
APPENDIX 


ao MX 


bi THFINDER) CorE RULEBOOK 3 
SS —————— r3 


the conjuration school of magic, typically involving summoning, creation, 
teleportation, or moving things from place to place. 297 
consecration (trait) A consecration spell enhances an area for an extended period of 
time. A given area can have only a single consecration effect at a time. The new 
effect attempts to counteract any existing one in areas of overlap. 
Constitution (Con) This ability score measures your toughness and durability. 19 
construct (trait) A construct is an artificial creature empowered by a force other 
than necromancy. Constructs are often mindless; they are immune to disease, 
the paralyzed condition, and poison; and they may have Hardness based on the 
materials used to construct their bodies. Constructs are not living creatures, nor 
are they undead. When reduced to 0 Hit Points, a construct creature is destroyed. 
consumable (trait) An item with this trait can be used only once. Unless stated 
otherwise, it's destroyed after activation. Consumable items include alchemical 
items and magical consumables such as scrolls and talismans. When a character 
creates consumable items, they can make them in batches of four. 559-571 
alchemical items 543-554 
crafting consumables 245 
contact (trait) This poison is delivered by contact with the skin. 550 
controlled (condition) Another creature determines your actions. 618 
copper piece (cp) 271 
cost of living 294, 502 
counteract The process used when one effect tries to negate another. 305, 458-459 
Counterspell 22 A reaction some spellcasters can use to negate spells. 198, 209 
cover When you're behind a physical obstacle, you get a +2 circumstance bonus to AC, 
Reflex saves vs. area effects, and Stealth checks. This increases to +4 for greater 
cover. Creatures can provide lesser cover: a *1 circumstance bonus to AC. 477 
Cover Tracks (skill action) Conceal your trail during exploration. (Survival, trained) 252. 
cp (copper piece) 271 
Craft (skill action) Make an item during downtime. (Crafting, trained) 244-245 
Craft requirements for items 535 
GM advice 504 
Crafting (skill) Create, understand, and repair items. (Int) 243-245 
Crawl 9 (basic action) Move 5 feet while prone. 470 
Create a Diversion * (skill action) Distract someone. (Deception) 245 
Create Forgery (skill action) Make a false document in downtime. (Society, trained) 251 
creature An active participant in the story and world. This includes monsters and 
nonplayer characters (played by the Game Master) and player characters (played 
by the other players). 
monster identification 238-239, 506 
critical You can get a greater success-a critical success—by rolling 10 above your DC, 
or a worse failure—a critical failure—by rolling 10 lower than your DC. 445-446 
critical hit (Strike) 471 
critical specialization (weapons) 283-284 
currency 12, 27 
curse (trait) A curse is an effect that places some long-term affliction on a creature. 
Curses are always magical and are typically the result of a spell or trap. Effects with 
this trait can be removed only by effects that specifically target curses. 457-458 
d4, d6, d8, d10, d12, d20, and d% Notations for different sizes of dice. 'd20" is a 
twenty-sided die, for example. 7 
daily preparations During your morning preparations, you ready your gear, prepare 
spells, and otherwise get ready for your adventuring day. 480, 500 
damage Damage dealt to a creature reduces that creature's Hit Points on a 1-to-1 basis. 
Melee damage roll = damage die of the weapon or unarmed attack + Str modifier 
+ bonuses + penalties; Ranged damage roll = damage die of the weapon + Str 
modifier for a thrown weapon + bonuses + penalties. 450-453 
damage dice 279, 450-451 
damage types 451, 452 
damage while dying 459 
doubling and halving 451 
environmental damage (GM) 512 
massive damage (You die if one blow deals double your maximum HP) 461 
nonlethal attack 453 
persistent damage (condition) 621 
darkness Creatures and objects in darkness are hidden or undetected, and creatures 
without darkvision have the blinded condition in darkness. 464 
darkness (trait) Darkness effects extinguish non-magical light in the area, and can 
counteract (page 458-459) less powerful magical light. You must usually target 
light magic with your darkness magic directly to counteract the light, but some 


darkness spells automatically attempt to counteract light. 464 
darkvision (sense) See clearly in darkness, though in black and white only. 465 
darkwood (material) 578-579 
dazzled (condition) Everything is concealed to you. 619 
DC (Difficulty Class) See also Difficulty Class. 445, 503-506 
deadly (weapon trait) 282 
deafened (condition) You're unable to hear. 619 
death (trait) An effect with the death trait kills you immediately if it reduces you to 0 
HP. Some death effects can bring you closer to death or slay you outright without 
reducing you to 0 HP. 461 
death and dying 459-461 
instant death 461 
debilitation Debilitations apply conditions and other negative effects to a creature. 
When the creature is affected by a new debilitation, any previous one it was 
affected by ends. 181, 182 
Deception (skill) Trick and mislead others. (Cha) 245-246, 506 
Decipher Writing (skill action) Understand obscure or coded text. (Arcana, Occultism, 
Religion, Society; trained) 234-236 
dedication (trait) You must select a feat with this trait to apply an archetype to your 
character. 219 
Defend (exploration activity) Travel with your shield raised. 479 
degrees of success The four possible outcomes of a check: critical success, success, 
failure, and critical failure. 445-446 
deity Deities are powerful entities that live beyond the world and grant power in the 
form of spells to their truly devoted believers. 29, 437-440 
championss deity 106-107 
clerics deity 118 
Delay © (basic action) Take your turn later. 470 
demon (trait) A family of fiends, demons hail from or trace their origins to the Abyss. 
Most are irredeemably chaotic evil and have darkvision. 433 
Demoralize * (skill action) Frighten your enemies. (Intimidation) 247 
Detect Magic (exploration activity) Cast detect magic at regular intervals. 479 
detecting creatures 465-467 
detection (trait) Effects with this trait attempt to determine the presence or location 
of a person, object, or aura. 
devil (trait) A family of fiends from Hell, most devils are irredeemably lawful evil. They 
typically have greater darkvision, immunity to fire, and telepathy. 433 
Dexterity (Dex) This ability score measures your agility and deftness. 19 
Dexterity modifier cap (armor) 274 
dice (singular "die") 7, 8, 279 
die roll Any time you roll the dice, you're making a roll. 10, 443-450 
difficult terrain (terrain) It costs 5 extra feet of movement to enter a space of difficult 
terrain, or 10 extra for greater difficult terrain. 475-476 
Difficulty Class (DC) The number you need to succeed at a check. To generate a DC 
from a modifier (like Perception DC), add 10 to the modifier. 445 
adjusting difficulty (GM) 503-504 
class DC (10 + proficiency bonus + key ability modifier) 29 
counteract DC 458-459 
level-based DCs (GM) 503 
setting DCs (GM) 503-506 
simple DCs (untrained 10, trained 15, expert 20, master 30, legendary 40) 503 
spell DC (10 + spellcasting ability modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + 
penalties) 298, 447-448 
dim light Creatures and objects in dim light are concealed. 464 
dinosaur (trait) These reptiles have survived from prehistoric times. 
Diplomacy (skill) Influence others through negotiation and flattery. (Cha) 246-247, 506 
disability 487 
Disable a Device * (skill action) Disable a trap or a similar complex mechanism. 
(Thievery, trained) 253 
disarm (weapon trait) 282 
Disarm * (skill action) Make a creature drop an item. (Athletics, trained) 243 
disaster 518-519 
disbelieve Attempt to ignore an illusion. 298 
disease (trait) An effect with this trait applies one or more diseases. A disease is 
typically an affliction. 457-458 
Dismiss * (action) End a spell or magic item effect that can be dismissed. 305, 534 
dispel See also counteract. 305, 458-459 
disrupting actions 462-463 


SSE ES OEE ca 84908 
p GLOSSARY AND IND 


= Ses 


disrupting item activations 532 building encounters (GM) 488-489 
disrupting spells 303 initiative 468 
divination (trait) The divination school of magic typically involves obtaining or running encounters (GM) 493-496 
transferring information, or predicting events. 297 social encounters (GM) 494-496 
divine (trait) This magic comes from the divine tradition, drawing power from deities special battles (aerial, aquatic, mounted) 478 
or similar sources. Anything with this trait is magical. 299 encumbered (condition) Too much Bulk impedes your movement. 619 
divine spell list 309-311 energy (damage type) An umbrella category including acid, cold, electricity, fire, 
domain 441 force, negative, positive, and sonic damage. 452 
doomed (condition) Your soul is in peril, bringing you closer to death. 619 enfeebled (condition) Your strength has been sapped away. 619 
downtime A mode of play in which characters are not adventuring. Days pass quickly environment 512-519 
at the table, and characters engage in long-term activities. 12, 481 environmental (trait) A hazard with this trait is something dangerous that's part of 
downtime activities 461-462, 481 the natural world, such as quicksand or harmful mold. 
running downtime (GM) 500-502 envision (item activation component) 533 
downtime (trait) An activity with this trait takes a day or more, and can be used only equipment See also items. 27, 270-295 
during downtime. 17, 234 Escape *9* (basic action) Attempt to get free when grabbed, restrained or | : 
dragon (trait) Dragons are reptilian creatures, often winged or with the power of flight. immobilized. 470 EQUIPMENT 
Most are able to use a breath weapon and are immune to sleep and paralysis. 433 ethereal (trait) Ethereal creatures are natives of the Ethereal Plane. They can survive ig 
dragonhide (material) 579 the basic environmental effects of the Ethereal Plane. om 
drained (condition) Blood loss or a similar effect has leeched your vitality. 619 ethnicities of Golarion 55, 430-431 SPELLS 
draw an item See also Interact. 271, 273 evil (damage type) 452 tt 
Drop Prone * (basic action) Fall flat on the ground. 470, 621 evil (trait) Evil effects often manipulate energy from evil-aligned Outer Planes and are 1 
drop an item See also Release. 271, 273 antithetical to good divine servants or divine servants of good deities. A creature = THE AGE OF 
drow (trait) Subterranean kin of the elves, drow typically have darkvision and inborn with this trait is evil in alignment. ~ LOST OMENS 
magical abilities. evocation (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated with the == 
drowning and suffocation 478 evocation school of magic, typically involving energy and elemental forces. 298 
druid (class) 128-139 Experience Points (XP) Points that measure a player character's progress, accrued PLAYING THE 
multiclass archetype 225 during play. Typically a PC gains a new level upon reaching 1,000 XP. 8 GAME 
order spells 399-401 encounter budget (GM) 489 eal 
primal spell list 314-315 leveling up 31 
druid (trait) This indicates abilities from the druid class. XP awards (GM) 507-508 
duergar (trait) Subterranean kin of the dwarves, duergar typically have darkvision expert (proficiency rank) Add your level + 4 to associated rolls and DCs. 13, 444 
and immunity to poison. They are not easily fooled by illusions. exploration A mode of play used for traveling, investigating, and otherwise exploring. 
duration 455 The GM determines the flow of time. 10, 479-480 
spell durations 304-305 exploration activities 461, 479-480 | 
dwarf (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the dwarf ancestry. Dwarves are running exploration (GM) 496-500 J 
stout folk who often live underground and typically have darkvision. An ability exploration (trait) An activity with this trait takes more than a turn to use, and can fOr 
with this trait can be used or selected only by dwarves. An item with this trait is usually be used only during exploration mode. 17, 234 | APPENDIX 
created and used by dwarves. 34-37, 431 extradimensional (trait) This effect or item creates an extradimensional space. An 
dying (condition) You have been reduced to 0 HP and are nearing death. 619 extradimensional effect placed inside another extradimensional space ceases to Er TSO —— 
death and dying rules 459-461 unction until it is removed. H - i 
Earn Income (skill action) Make money using a skill during downtime. (Crafting, Lore, failure A result on a check that fails to meet the DC. Failing by 10 or more is a critical $ — 
Performance; trained) 236-238 ailure. If a check has no failure entry, nothing happens on a failure. 445-446 
GM advice 504-505 falling When you fall more than 5 feet, you take bludgeoning damage equal to half 
earth (trait) Effects with the earth trait either manipulate or conjure earth. Those that he distance you fell and land prone. 463-464 
manipulate earth have no effect in an area without earth. Creatures with this trait familiar A Tiny creature mystically bonded to you. 217-218 
consist primarily of earth or have a connection to magical earth. fascinated (condition) You must focus on one subject of your fascination. 619-620 
effect An effect is the result of an ability, though an ability’s exact effect is sometimes fast healing A creature with this ability regains the given number of Hit Points each 
contingent on the result of a check or other roll. 453-457 round at the beginning of its turn. 461 
electricity (damage type) 452 fatal (weapon trait) 282 
electricity (trait) Effects with this trait deal electricity damage. A creature with this fatigued (condition) Your defenses are lower, and you can't use exploration activities 
trait has a connection to magical electricity. while traveling. 620 
elemental (trait) Elementals are creatures directly tied to an element and native to fear (trait) Fear effects evoke the emotion of fear. Effects with this trait always have 
the Elemental Planes. Elementals don't need to breathe. the mental and emotion traits as well. 
elf (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the elf ancestry. Elves are feat An ability you gain or select for your character due to their ancestry, background, 
mysterious people with rich traditions of magic and scholarship who typically class, general training, or skill training. Some feats grant special actions. 12, 18 
have low-light vision. An ability with this trait can be used or selected only by ancestry feat 33 
elves. A weapon with this trait is created and used by elves. 38-41, 431-432 archetype feat 219 
half-elf 55, 56, 58-59 class feat 68 
elixir (trait) Elixirs are alchemical liquids that are used by drinking them. 546-550 general feat 68, 255 
emanation (area) 457 skill feat (general feat that improves skills) 68, 255 
emotion (trait) This effect alters a creature's emotions. Effects with this trait always Feint *9 (skill action) Misdirect someone to make them flat-footed. (Deception, 
have the mental trait as well. Creatures with special training or that have trained) 246 
mechanical or artificial intelligence are immune to emotion effects. fey (trait) Creatures of the First World are called the fey. 
enchantment (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated with fiend (trait) Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection to the evil-aligned 
the enchantment school of magic, typically involving mind control, emotion planes are called fiends. Fiends can survive the basic environmental effects of 
alteration, and other mental effects. 297 planes in the Outer Sphere. 
encounter A mode of play in which time is measured in 6-second rounds and fighter (class) 140-153 
participants use precise actions. Combat takes place in encounters. 10-12, 468-478 multiclass archetype 226 


THFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK 3 a 
Al lg i Án — a | E p 
fighter (trait) This indicates abilities from the fighter class. are small people skilled at magic who seek out new experiences and usually have 
finesse (weapon trait) 282 low-light vision. An ability with this trait can be used or selected only by gnomes. 
fire (damage type) 452 A weapon with this trait is created and used by gnomes. 42-45, 432 
fire (trait) Effects with the fire trait deal fire damage or either conjure or manipulate goblin (trait) A creature with this trait can be one of several kinds of creature, 
fire. Those that manipulate fire have no effect in an area without fire. Creatures including goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears. Goblins tend to have darkvision. 
with this trait consist primarily of fire or have a connection to magical fire. An ability with this trait can be used or chosen only by goblins. A weapon with 
flank When two creatures are on opposite sides of their enemy, the enemy is flanked, this trait is created and used by goblins. 46-49, 432 
becoming flat-footed to those creatures. 476 gods See also deity. 437-440 
flat check A d20 roll that measures pure chance. A flat check can't have any modifiers, Golarion The world of the Pathfinder setting. 12, 416-441 
bonuses, or penalties applied to it. 450 gold piece (gp) 271 
flat-footed (condition) You take a -2 circumstance penalty to AC. 620 good (damage type) 452 
fleeing (condition) You must run away. 620 good (trait) Good effects often manipulate energy from good-aligned Outer Planes 
flexible (armor trait) 275 and are antithetical to evil divine servants or divine servants of evil deities. A 
flourish (trait) Flourish actions are actions that require too much exertion to perform creature with this trait is good in alignment. 
a large number in a row. You can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn. gp (gold piece) 271 
Fly * (specialty basic action) Move up to your fly Speed. 472 Grab an Edge 2 (specialty basic action) Try to catch yourself while falling. 472 
aerial combat 478 grabbed (condition) A creature, abject, or magic holds you in place. 620 
fly Speed 463 Grapple ¢> (skill action) Grab or restrain a creature. (Athletics) 242 
focus (spell component) 303 grapple (weapon trait) 283 
Focus Point If you can cast focus spells, you have a pool of Focus Points you can use grid A map with 1-inch squares used for indicating position and movement. 473 
to cast them. You regain a Focus Point using the Refocus activity. 300, 302 playing without a grid (GM) 494 
focus spell A type of spell, specific to a class, that can be cast using Focus Points and hag (trait) These creatures are malevolent spellcasters who form covens. 
is automatically heightened to half your level rounded up. Focus spells always half-elf (trait) A creature with this trait is part human and part elf. An ability with this 
have a descriptive term such as ‘domain spell” or “ki spell.” 300, 302, 386-407 trait can be used or selected only by half-elves. 55, 56, 58-59 
Refocus (activity) 300 half-orc (trait) A creature with this trait is part human and part orc. An ability with 
focused (trait) An item with this trait can give you an additional Focus Point. This this trait can be used or selected only by half-orcs. 55, 56, 58-59 
focus point is separate from your focus pool and doesn't count toward the cap on halfling (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the halfling ancestry. These 
your focus pool. You can gain this benefit only if you have a focus pool, and there small people are friendly wanderers considered to be lucky. An ability with this 
might be restrictions on how the point can be used. You can't gain more than 1 trait can be used or selected only by halflings. A weapon with this trait is created 
Focus Point per day from focused items. 535 and used by halflings. 50-53, 432 
Follow the Expert (exploration activity) Benefit from anothers skill proficiency. 479 Hardness A statistic representing an object's durability. 272, 579 
force (damage type) 452 haunt (trait) A hazard with this trait is a spiritual echo, often of someone with a tragic 
force (trait) Effects with this trait deal force damage or create objects made of pure death. Putting a haunt to rest often involves resolving the haunt's unfinished 
magical force. business. A haunt that hasn't been properly put to rest always returns after a time. 
Force Open * (skill action) Physically wrench something open. (Athletics) 242 hazard Hazards are non-creature dangers that adventurers encounter during their 
Force Open DCs (GM) 515 journeys, including environmental hazards, haunts, and traps. Simple hazards 
forceful (weapon trait) 282 have a one-time effect, but negotiating a complex hazard takes place in encounter 
formula A recipe or instructions required to Craft an item. 293-294 mode, wherein the hazard has a specific routine. 498, 520-529 
formula book (alchemist) 73, 81 complex hazards 526-529 
Fortitude (Fort) A type of saving throw used to resist diseases, poisons, and other simple hazards 522-526 
physical effects. Fortitude modifier = Con modifier + proficiency bonus + other XP for hazards 507-508, 521 
bonuses + penalties. 13, 449 hazardous terrain (terrain) You take damage when moving through this terrain. 476 
fortune (trait) A fortune effect beneficially alters how you roll your dice. You can never healing 459 
have more than one fortune effect alter a single roll. If multiple fortune effects would long-term rest (downtime) 481 
apply, you have to pick which to use. If a fortune effect and a misfortune effect would Medicine skill 248-249 
apply to the same roll, the two cancel each other out, and you roll normally. 449 natural healing 480 
free action (€>) An action you can use without spending one of your actions. Free healing (trait) A healing effect restores a creatures body, typically by restoring Hit 
actions with triggers can be used at any time, but they don't use up your 1 reaction Points, but sometimes by removing diseases or other debilitating effects. 
per round. 17, 461-462 helpful (condition) An NPC with this condition is likely to assist you. 620 
free-hand (weapon trait) 282-283 heritage A choice made to further define your ancestry. 33 
frequency An ability that can't be used at will might list a frequency. 18 Hero Point These points last only within a session. You can spend 1 Hero Point to 
friendly (condition) An NPC with this condition has a good attitude toward you. 620 reroll a check, or all your Hero Points to avoid dying. 29, 467 
frightened (condition) Fear makes you less capable of attacking and defending. 620 awarding Hero Points (GM) 507 
fumble A colloquial term for a critical failure. 445 hidden (condition) A creature knows your location but can't see you. 466, 620 
fungus (trait) Fungal creatures have the fungus trait. They are distinct from normal fungi. Hide *® (skill action) Make yourself hidden. (Stealth) 251-252 
Game Master (GM) The player who adjudicates the rules and narrates the elements High Jump *9 (skill action) Jump vertically. (Athletics) 242 
of the Pathfinder story and world that the other players explore. 12, 482-529 Hit Points (HP) A statistic representing the amount of physical harm a creature can 
Gargantuan (size) 473-475 take before it falls unconscious or dies. Damage decreases Hit Points on a 1-to-1 
Gather Information (skill action) Socialize to learn things. (Diplomacy) 246 basis, while healing restores Hit Points at the same rate. 12, 26, 67-68, 459-461 
GM advice 505 ancestry Hit Points 33 
gear See also item. 270-295 class Hit Points 67-68 
gender and pronouns 29 item Hit Points 272-273, 461 
general (trait) A type of feat that any character can select, regardless of ancestry and temporary Hit Points 461 
class, as long as they meet the prerequisites. You can select a feat with this trait hostile (condition) An NPC with this condition is likely to attack you. 620 
when your class grants a general feat. 255 hostile action 305 
giant (trait) Giants are massive humanoid creatures. 433-434 HP (Hit Points) See also Hit Points. 12, 26, 67-68, 459-461 
GM (Game Master) See also Game Master. 12, 482-529 Huge (size) 473-475 
gnome (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the gnome ancestry. Gnomes human (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the human ancestry. Humans 


are a diverse array of people known for their adaptability. An ability with this trait 
can be used or selected only by humans. 54-59, 430-431 
humanoid (trait) Humanoid creatures reason and act much like humans. They 
typically stand upright and have two arms and two legs. 
Hustle (exploration activity) Move at double your travel Speed. 480 
Identify Alchemy (skill action) Determine specifics of alchemy. (Crafting, trained) 245 
Identify Magic (skill action) Determine specifics of magic. (Arcana, Nature, Occultism, 
Religion; trained) 238 
GM advice 505 
illusion (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated with the illusion 
school of magic, typically involving false sensory stimuli. 298 
immobilized (condition) You cant move. 620 
immunity An immunity causes a creature to ignore all damage, effects, or conditions 
of a certain type. 451-453 
object immunities 273 
temporary immunity 453 
Impersonate (skill action) Pass yourself off as someone else. (Deception) 245-246 
imprecise sense A sense that can make creatures hidden, but not observed, such as 
human hearing. 464 
apacitation (trait) An ability with this trait can take a character completely out of 
the fight or even kill them, and it's harder to use on a more powerful character. 
If a spell has the incapacitation trait, any creature of more than twice the spell's 
level treats the result of their check to prevent being incapacitated by the spell 
as one degree of success better, or the result of any check the spellcaster made 
to incapacitate them as one degree of success worse. If any other effect has the 
incapacitation trait, a creature of higher level than the item, creature, or hazard 
generating the effect gains the same benefits. 
incline (terrain) You must Climb up an incline. 476 
indifferent (condition) An NPC with this condition neither likes nor dislikes you. 620 
infused (trait) 72, 75 
ingested (trait) This poison is delivered when drunk or eaten. 550 
inhaled (trait) This poison is delivered when breathed in. 550 
initiative At the start of an encounter, all participants involved roll for initiative to 
determine the order in which they act. 13, 468, 498-499 
Delay (basic action) 470 
injury (trait) This poison is delivered by damaging the recipient. 550 
Intelligence (Int) This ability score measures your reason and intellect. 19 
Interact * (basic action) Grab or manipulate an object. 470 
item activation component 533 
Intimidation (skill) Bend others to your will using threats. (Cha) 247, 506 
Invest an Item (activity) Invest your energy in an item as you don it. 531 
invested (trait) A character can wear only 10 magical items that have the invested 
trait. None of the magical effects of the item apply if the character hasn't invested 
it, nor can it be activated, though the character still gains any normal benefits 
from wearing the physical item (like a hat keeping rain off their head). 531 
Investigate (exploration activity) Study your surroundings. 480 
invisible (condition) Creatures can't see you. 467, 620-621 
item An object you carry, hold, or use. Items sometimes grant an item bonus or 
penalty to certain checks. 270-295, 530-617 
activating alchemical and magical items 532-534 
alchemical items 543-554 
armor 274-276, 555-558 
Bulk 271-272 
buying and selling (GM) 502 
carrying, wearing, and wielding 271-272 
Crafting 244-245 
formulas 293-294 
investing magic items 531 
item bonus or penalty 444-445 
item damage 272-273 
item level 271, 534 
magic items 531-535 
materials 577-579 
rarity 534 
runes 580-585 
shields 277, 586-588 
shoddy 273 
sizes 295 


o 


ct 


GLOSSARY AND IND 


— as por 


treasure tables (GM) 536-542 
weapons 278-286, 599-602 
item bonus A bonus that comes from an item. 444-445 

item penalty A penalty that comes from an item. 444-445 

jousting (weapon trait) 283 

key ability Your key ability is the ability score you use to determine your class DC, as 
well as your spell attack roll and spell DC if you're a spellcaster. A key ability for a 
skill is the ability modifier used for that skill. 67, 233 

knocked out When reduced to 0 HP, you fall unconscious and start dying. 459-460 

language 65, 432 

Large (size) 473-475 

lawful (damage type) 452 

lawful (trait) Lawful effects often manipulate energy from law-aligned Outer Planes 
and are antithetical to chaotic divine servants or divine servants of chaotic deities. 
A creature with this trait is lawful in alignment. 

Leap *9* (basic action) Jump horizontally 10 feet (15 feet if your Speed is 30 feet or 
more), or vertically 3 feet and horizontally 5 feet. 470 


Learn a Spell (skill action) Learn a new spell. (Arcana, Nature, Occultism, Religion; 
trained) 238 
GM advice 505 


legendary (proficiency rank) Add your level + 8 to associated rolls and DCs. 13, 444 
leshy These are small plant creatures, roughly humanoid in form. 434 
level A number that measures something's overall power. A character has a level from 
1st to 20th, and other aspects of the game also have levels. 13, 271, 534 
counteract level 458-459 
leveling up 31 
spell level (spells range in level from 1-10) 
Lie (skill action) Trick someone with a falsehood. (Deception) 246 
light (trait) Light effects overcome non-magical darkness in the area, and can 
Inet ages 458-459) magical darkness. You must usually target darkness 
Dr with your light magic directly to counteract the darkness, but some light 
spells automatically attempt to counteract darkness. 


light and darkness 301, 464 

line (area) 457 

line of effect 304, 457 

line of sight 457 

linguistic (trait) An effect with this trait depends on language comprehension. A 
linguistic effect that targets a creature works only if the target understands 
the language you are using. 

litany (trait) Litanies are special devotion spells, typically used by champions and 
requiring a single action, that usually give temporary immunity to further litanies. 

Long Jump * (skill action) Jump horizontally. (Athletics) 242-243 

Lore (skill) Know specialized information on a narrow topic. (Int) 247-24 

low-light vision (sense) See in dim light as though it were bright light. 465 

magic See also spell, item. 297-306 

magic item See also item. 531-617 

magical (trait) Something with the magical trait is imbued with magical energies not 
tied to a specific tradition of magic. A magical item radiates a magic aura infused 
with its dominant school of magic. 

Some items or effects are closely tied to a particular tradition of magic. In 
these cases, the item has the arcane, divine, occult, or primal trait instead of the 
magical trait. Any of these traits indicate that the item is magical. 535 

magical hazards 520-522 

magical tradition Arcane, divine, occult, and primal are the traditions of magic. 299 

Make an Impression (skill action) Change someone’ attitude. (Diplomacy) 246-247 

Maneuver in Flight *9* (skill action) Execute a difficult movement while flying. 
(Acrobatics, trained) 240-241 

manipulate (trait) You must physically manipulate an item or make gestures to use 
an action with this trait. Creatures without a suitable appendage can't perform 
actions with this trait. Manipulate actions often trigger reactions. 

master (proficiency rank) Add your level + 6 to associated rolls and DCs. 13, 444 

material (spell component) 303 

materials 577-579 

mechanical (trait) A hazard with this trait is a constructed physical object. 521, 522 

Medicine (skill) Heal people and help them recover from afflictions. (Wis) 248-249 

Medium (size) 473-475 

mental (damage type) 452 

mental (trait) A mental effect can alter the target’s mind. It has no effect on an object 
or a mindless creature. 


co 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 
m 


- THE AGE OF 


| LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


TEASE 


$ 
E 


| nomm 
ls o i 


YATHFINDER CORE RULEBOOK j 
Te e rr n TO Pre rl | 


metamagic (trait) Actions with the metamagic trait, usually from metamagic feats, multiplying 444 
tweak the properties of your spells. You must use a metamagic action directly mutagen (trait) An elixir with the mutagen trait temporarily transmogrifies the 
before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you use any action (including free subjects body and alters its mind. A mutagen always conveys one or more 
actions and reactions) other than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits beneficial effects paired with one or more detrimental effects. Mutagens are 
of the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a metamagic action are polymorph effects, meaning you can benefit from only one at a time. 
part of the spell's effect, not of the metamagic action itself. 304 narrow surface (terrain) You must Balance to cross a narrow surface. 476 
mindless (trait) A mindless creature has either programmed or rudimentary mental natural 1, natural 20 When you roll a d20 and the number on the die is a 1, decrease 
attributes. Most, if not all, of their mental ability modifiers are -5. They are your degree of success by one step. When the number is a 20, increase the degree 
immune to all mental effects. of success by one step. 445-446 
minion (trait) Minions are creatures that directly serve another creature. A creature with natural disaster 518-519 
this trait can use only 2 actions per turn, doesn't have reactions, and can't act when Nature (skill) Know about the natural world and primal magic. (Wis) 249 
it not your turn. Your minion acts on your turn in combat, once per turn, when you necromancy (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated with the 
spend an action to issue it commands. For an animal companion, you Command an necromancy school of magic, typically involving forces of life and death. 298 
Animal; for a minion that's a spell or magic item effect, like a summoned minion, negative (damage type) 452. 
you Sustain a Spell or Sustain an Activation; if not otherwise specified, you issue a negative (trait) Effects with this trait heal undead creatures with negative energy, 
verbal command as a single action with the auditory and concentrate traits. If given deal negative damage to living creatures, or manipulate negative energy. 
no commands, minions use no actions except to defend themselves or to escape noisy (armor trait) 275 
obvious harm. If left unattended for long enough, typically 1 minute, mindless nonlethal (trait) An effect with this trait is not inherently deadly. Damage from a 
minions usually dont act, animals follow their instincts, and sapient minions act how nonlethal effect knocks a creature out rather than killing it. 
they please. A minion can't control other creatures. nonlethal (weapon trait) 283 
misfortune (trait) A misfortune effect detrimentally alters how you roll your dice. nonlethal attack 453 
You can never have more than one misfortune effect alter a single roll. If multiple nonplayer character (NPC) A character controlled by the GM. 13 
misfortune effects would apply, the GM decides which is worse and applies it. If a oath (trait) 109 
fortune effect and a misfortune effect would apply to the same roll, the two cancel object See also item. 271-273 
each other out, and you roll normally. 449 observed (condition) You're in clear view. 466, 621 
mithral (material) 579 occult (trait) This magic comes from the occult tradition, calling upon bizarre and 
mode of play The three types of playing the game—encounters, exploration, and ephemeral mysteries. Anything with this trait is magical. 299 
downtime. Each has a different time scale and degree of rules precision. 10-12, occult spell list 311-314 
468-481 Occultism (skill) Know about philosophies, mysticism, and occult magic. (Int) 249-250 
running modes of play (GM) 493 oil (trait) Oils are magical gels, ointments, pastes, or salves that are typically applied 
modifier A value added to a calculation that can be positive or negative. 444-445 to an object and are used up in the process. 561-562. 
ability modifier 20 olfactory (trait) An olfactory effect can affect only creatures that can smell it. This 
monitor (trait) Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection to the neutrally applies only to olfactory parts of the effect, as determined by the GM. 
aligned planes are called monitors. Monitors can survive the basic environmental onset The delay before an affliction, elixir, or potion takes effect. 458, 534 
effects of planes in the Outer Sphere. ooze (trait) Oozes are creatures with simple anatomies. They tend to have low mental 
monk (class) 154-165 ability scores and immunity to mental effects and precision damage. 
ki spel s 157, 401-402 open (trait) These maneuvers work only as the first salvo on your turn. You can use an 
multiclass archetype 227 open only if you haven't used an action with the attack or open trait yet this turn. 
monk (trait) Abilities with this trait are from the monk class. A weapon with this trait orc (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the orc ancestry. These 
is primarily used by monks. green-skinned people tend to have darkvision. An ability with this trait can be used 
monster A monster is a creature that is typically inhuman and serves to thwart the or selected only by orcs. An item with this trait is created and used by orcs. 434 
PCs in some way. Beneficial monsters are exceptions in most games. The GM plays half-orc 55, 56, 58-59 
the role of any monster the PCs encounter. 8 orichalcum (material) 579 
monster identification 238-239, 506 paladin A lawful good champion. 106 
morph (trait) Effects that slightly alter a creatures form have the morph trait. Any Palm an Object ¢ (skill action) Take an object without being noticed. (Thievery) 253 
Strikes specifically granted by a morph effect are magical. You can be affected paralyzed (condition) You can't move or fully defend yourself. 621 
by multiple morph spells at once, but if you morph the same body part more parry (weapon trait) 283 
than once, the second morph effect attempts to counteract the first (in the same party order 497 
manner as two polymorph effects, described in that trait). Pathfinder Society An organized play campaign played all over the world. 492 
Your morph effects might also end if you are polymorphed and the polymorph Golarion organization 417, 436 
effect invalidates or overrides your morph effect. The GM determines which morph PC (player character) See also player character. 13 
effects can be used together and which cant. penalty A negative value added to a calculation. Add only the worst penalty of a 
Mount *> (specialty basic action) Get on an allied creature to ride it. 472 single type (circumstance, item, status). 12, 444-445 
mount An animal companion with this special ability supports its rider. 214 multiple attack penalty (-5 on your second attack, -10 on further attacks) 446 
mounted combat 478 range penalty 279, 446-447 
move (trait) An action with this trait involves moving from one space to another. 474 Perception A statistic measuring your ability to notice hidden objects or unusual 
movement 463-464 situations. Perception is usually used for initiative rolls. Perception modifier = Wis 
forced movement 475 modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties. 13, 27, 448, 464-467 
in encounters and ona grid 473-477 initiative 448, 468 
movement without a grid 494 Perform (skill action) Impress people with a performance. (Performance) 250 
special movement types 463 Performance (skill) Use your talents to put on a show. (Cha) 250, 506 
Speed (land Speed) 13, 24, 463 persistent damage (condition) You keep taking damage every round. 621 
multiclass (trait) Archetypes with the multiclass trait represent diversifying your petrified (condition) You've been turned to stone. 621 
training into another class's specialties. You can't select a multiclass archetypes physical (damage type) A grouping of bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. 452 
dedication feat if you are a member of the class of the same name. 219 Pick a Lock 99 (skill action) Open a lock. (Thievery, trained) 253 
multiple attack penalty You take this penalty on all attacks after the first on your piercing (damage type) A type of physical damage. 452 
turn. This is a -5 penalty on your second attack and -10 on all subsequent attacks plane 418-419 


(or-4and -8 if your weapon or unarmed attack has the agile trait). 446 plant (trait) Vegetable creatures have the plant trait. They are distinct from normal 


GLOSSARY A 


< Es 


plants. Magical effects with this trait manipulate or conjure plants or plant matter attack penalty. Some actions with the press trait also grant an effect on a failure. 
in some way. Those that manipulate plants have no effect in an area with no plants. The effects that are added on a failure don't apply on a critical failure. If your press 
platinum piece (pp) 271 action succeeds, you can choose to apply the failure effect instead. (For example, 
player One of the real people playing the game. 7 you may wish to do this when an attack deals no damage due to resistance. 
Player Character (character or PC) A character created and controlled by a player Because a press action requires a multiple attack penalty, you can't use one when 
other than the GM. 13 it's not your turn, even if you use the Ready activity. 
character creation 19-30 Price The amount of currency it usually costs to purchase an item. 271, 535 
Point Out *> (specialty basic action) Indicate an undetected creatures location. 472 primal (trait) This magic comes from the primal tradition, connecting to the natural 
poison (damage type) 452 world and instinct. Anything with this trait is magical. 299 
poison (trait) An effect with this trait delivers a poison or deals poison damage. An primal spell list 314-315 
item with this trait is poisonous and might cause an affliction. 457-458, 550-554 proficiency A measure of a character's aptitude at a specific task or quality, with 
polymorph (trait) These effects transform the target into a new form. A target can't five ranks: untrained, trained, expert, master, and legendary. Proficiency gives 
be under the effect of more than one polymorph effect at a time. If it comes under a proficiency bonus. Being untrained adds a +0 bonus. Being trained, expert, 
the effect of a second polymorph effect, the second polymorph effect attempts master, or legendary adds your level plus 2, 4, 6, or 8, respectively. 13, 444 
to counteract the first. If it succeeds, it takes effect, and if it fails, the spell has initial proficiencies 26, 68 ~ ! 
no effect on that target. Any Strikes specifically granted by a polymorph effect minimum proficiency for hazards 520-522 EDUIPMENT 
are magical. Unless otherwise stated, polymorph spells don't allow the target to prone (condition) You're lying on the ground and easier to attack. 621 
take on the appearance of a specific individual creature, but rather just a generic propulsive (weapon trait) 283 " 
creature of a general type or ancestry. quickened (condition) You get an extra action each turn. 622 ~ SPELLS 
If you take on a battle form with a polymorph spell, the special statistics can rage (trait) 87 Nu v 
be adjusted only by circumstance bonuses, status bonuses, and penalties. Unless Raise a Shield * (specialty basic action) Gain your shield's bonus to AC. 472 - 
otherwise noted, the battle form prevents you from casting spells, speaking, range 304, 455 i THE AGE OF 
and using most manipulate actions that require hands. (If theres doubt about range increment 279, 446-447 LOST OMENS 
whether you can use an action, the GM decides.) Your gear is absorbed into you; ranger (class) 166-177 T 
the constant abilities of your gear still function, but you cant activate any items. multiclass archetype 228 
positive (damage type) 452 ranger (trait) This indicates abilities from the ranger class. P LAYING THE 
positive (trait) Effects with this trait heal living creatures with positive energy, deal rare (trait) This rarity indicates that a rules element is very difficult to find in the —. BAME 
positive energy damage to undead, or manipulate positive energy. game world. A rare feat, spell, item or the like is available to players only if the | 
possession (trait) Effects with this trait allow a creature to project its mind and spirit GM decides to include it in the game, typically through discovery during play. 13 hy a 
into a target. A creature immune to mental effects can't use a possession effect. rarity How often something is encountered in the game world. The rarities are common, . GAME 
While possessing a target, a possessor's true body is unconscious (and can’t wake uncommon, rare, and unique. Anything that doesn't list a rarity is common. 13, 535 \ STERING 
up normally), unless the possession effect allows the creature to physically enter GM advice 534 ubi 
the target. Whenever the target takes damage, the possessor takes half that reach The distance you can physically reach with your body or a weapon. 455 T AIL: 
amount of damage as mental damage. reach (weapon trait) 283 e 
A possessor loses the benefits of any of its active spells or abilities that affect reaction (2) An action you can use even if it's not your turn. You can use 1 reaction & TREASURE 
its physical body, though it gains the benefits of the target's active spells and per round. 17, 461-462, 472-473 — La f OCA 
abilities that affect their body. A possessor can use any of the target's abilities Ready *99 (basic action) Prepare an action to use when it's not your turn. 470 APPENDIX 
that are purely physical, and it can't use any of its own abilities except spells and Recall Knowledge ¢ (skill action) Try to remember something using a skill. 238-239 
purely mental abilities. The GM decides whether an ability is purely physical or GM advice 505-506 0” 
purely mental. A possessor uses the target's attack modifier, AC, Fortitude save, recovery check A flat check made to see if you get worse or better while dying. 459 
Reflex save, Perception, and physical skills, and its own Will save, mental skills, Reflex (Ref) A type of saving throw used to quickly dodge. Reflex modifier = Dex 
spell attack roll, and spell DC; benefits of invested items apply where relevant modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties. 13, 448-449 
(the possessor's invested items apply when using its own values, and the target's Refocus (activity) Regain 1 Focus Point. 300 
invested items apply when using the target's values). A possessor gains no benefit Release © (basic action) Let go of something you're holding. 470-471 
from casting spells that normally affect only the caster, since it isn't in its own body. Religion (skill) Know about deities, faith, and divine magic. (Wis) 250 
The possessor must use its own actions to make the possessed creature act. reload 279 
If a possessor reaches 0 Hit Points through any combination of damage to its Repair (skill action) Fix a broken or damaged item. (Crafting) 243-244 
true body and mental damage from the possession, it is knocked out as normal Repeat a Spell (exploration activity) Repeatedly Cast a Spell as you move. 480 
and the possession immediately ends. If the target reaches 0 Hit Points first, the Request ¢> (skill action) Convince someone to do you a favor. (Diplomacy) 247 
possessor can either fall unconscious with the body and continue the possession requirements Some abilities can be used only if you meet their requirements. 18 
or end the effect as a free action and return to its body. If the target dies, the reroll An ability that causes you to roll again has the fortune or misfortune trait. 449, 467 
possession ends immediately and the possessor is stunned for 1 minute. resistance Reduce damage you take of a certain type. 453 
potion (trait) A potion is a magical liquid activated when you drink it. 562-564 rest Characters recover HP (normally Con modifier x level) and resources with 8 
pp (platinum piece) 271 hours of sleep. 480, 499-500 
precious (trait) Valuable materials with special properties have the precious trait. GM advice 499-500, 502 
They can be substituted for base materials when you Craft items. 577-579 long-term rest 481 
armor and weapons made of precious materials. 555-556, 599 restrained (condition) You are bound by restraints or a grappling creature. 622 
damage from precious materials 452 result of a check 445 
precise sense A sense that can make creatures observed, such as human sight. 464 retrain You can retrain during downtime to change character choices. 481 
precision (damage type) A type of damage that increases the attack's listed damage, GM advice 502 
using the same damage type, rather than adding a separate amount. 452 revelation (trait) Effects with this trait see things as they truly are. 
prediction (trait) Effects with this trait determine what is likely to happen in the near rewards 507-511 
future. Most predictions are divinations. ritual A type of spell that takes downtime to cast and doesn't use spell slots. 408-415 
preparations See also daily preparations. 480, 500 rogue (class) 178-189 
prerequisite Many feats and other abilities can be taken only if you meet their multiclass archetype 229 
prerequisites. Prerequisites are often feats or proficiency ranks. 18 rogue (trait) This indicates abilities from the rogue class. 
press (trait) Actions with this trait allow you to follow up earlier attacks. An action roleplaying Describing a character's actions, often while acting from the perspective 


with the press trait can be used only if you are currently affected by a multiple of the character. 13 


t£ a PHI as x Vosa nm | 
E. 


» THFÍNI t) CORE RULEBOOK 4 


roleplaying game (RPG) An interactive story where one player, the Game Master 
(GM), sets the scene and presents challenges, while other players take the roles of 
player characters (PCs) and attempt to overcome those challenges. 7 
roll Any time you roll the dice, you're making a roll. The most common type of roll is a 
check (comparing a d20 plus modifiers against a DC). 10, 443-450 
round A period of time during an encounter in which all participants get a chance 
to act. A round represents approximately 6 seconds in game time. 13, 468-469 
durations measured in rounds 304 
rounding 444 
RPG (roleplaying game) 7 
rune 580-585 
runestone 571 
saving throw (check) A roll made to avoid or mitigate a dangerous effect. You roll a 
save automatically, with no action or a reaction. The character who isnt acting 
rolls the d20 for a saving throw, and the creature who is acting provides the DC. 
There are three types of saves: Fortitude, Reflex, and Will. 13, 27, 305, 448-449 
basic saving throw 305, 449 
scent (sense) Sense things using smell as an imprecise sense with a limited range. 465 
school Magic is divided into eight schools: abjuration, conjuration, divination, 
enchantment, evocation, illusion, necromancy, and transmutation. 297-298 
Scout (exploration activity) Look ahead for danger. 480 
scroll (trait) A scroll contains a single spell you can cast without a spell slot. 564-565 
scrying (trait) A scrying effect lets you see, hear, or otherwise get sensory information 
from a distance using a sensor or apparatus, rather than your own eyes and ears. 
Search (exploration activity) Look for hidden things. 480 
secret (trait) The GM rolls the check for this ability in secret. 450 
Seek *9* (basic action) Scan an area for creatures or objects using Perception. 471 
Sense Direction * (skill action) Figure out your precise location. (Survival) 252 
GM advice 506 
Sense Motive *> (basic action) Determine if a creature is lying. 471 
senses 464-465 
session A Pathfinder game session usually last a few hours. 7, 489-491 
shadow (trait) This magic involves shadows or the energy of the Shadow Plane. 
shield 277 
magic and special shields 586-588 
Raise a Shield action 472 
Shield Block reaction 266 
shove (weapon trait) 283 
Shove * (skill action) Push a creature. (Athletics) 243 
sickened (condition) You're sick to your stomach. 622 
silver (material) 579 
silver piece (sp) 271 
single action (*) An action that takes one of your three actions on your turn. 17, 461 
size A creature can be Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, or Gargantuan. 473-474 
item size 295 
skill A statistic representing the ability to perform certain tasks that require 
instruction or practice. Skill modifier = modifier of the skill's key ability score + 
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties. 13, 28, 233-253 
Aid (reaction used to grant a bonus to an ally's check) 470 
check penalty (from armor) 234, 274 
DCs (GM advice) 504-506 
general skill actions 234-240 
skill feat (a type of general feat related to skills) 68, 255 
skill increase 68 
skill (trait) A general feat with the skill trait improves your skills and their actions or 
gives you new actions for a skill. A feat with this trait can be selected when a class 
grants a skill feat or general feat. Archetype feats with the skill trait can be selected 
in place of a skill feat if you have that archetype's dedication feat. 219, 255 
slashing (damage type) A type of physical damage. 452 
sleep (trait) This effect can cause a creature to fall asleep or get drowsy. 
slowed (condition) You lose actions each turn. 622 
Small (size) 473-475 
snare (trait) Traps typically made by rangers, snares follow special rules that allow 
them to be constructed quickly and used on the battlefield. 266, 589-591 
Sneak * (skill action) Move quietly while hidden. (Stealth) 252 
Society (skill) Know about civilization, culture, and history. (Int) 250-251 
somatic (spell component) 303 
sonic (damage type) 452 


sonic (trait) An effect with the sonic trait functions only if it makes sound, meaning it has 
no effect in an area of silence or ina vacuum. This is different from an auditory effect, 
which functions only if the target can hear it. A sonic effect might deal sonic damage. 
sorcerer (class) 190-201 
bloodline spells 194-195, 402-406 
multiclass archetype 230 
spell lists 307-315 
sorcerer (trait) This indicates abilities from the sorcerer class. 
sp (silver piece) 271 
space The squares a creature takes up on a grid. 473-474 
speaking 471 
specialty basic action 472 
Speed A measure of the distance a character can move using a single action, 
measured in feet. See also movement. 13, 463 
burrow, climb, fly, and swim Speeds 463 
movement on a grid 473-476 
Speed penalty from armor 274 
Step and Stride actions 471 
travel Speed 4/9 
spell A magical effect created by performing mystical incantations and gestures 
known only to those with special training or inborn abilities. 13, 297-415 
areas 304 
attacking with a spell 298, 305 
cantrips 300 
casting spells and the Cast a Spell activity 302-303 
components 303 
counteracting 305 
disrupting 303 
durations 304-305, 499 
focus spells (bloodline spells, composition spells, devotion spells, domain spells, ki 
spells, order spells, and school spells) 300-302, 386-407 
heightening 299 
identifying 238, 305 
innate 302 
prepared 298 
ranges 304 
rituals 408-415 
school 297-298 
spell descriptions 316-385 
spell level (spells range in level from 1 to 10) 
spell lists 307-315 
spell repertoire (the spells a spontaneous spellcaster knows) 96-97, 193 
spell attack roll (spellcasting ability modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses 
+ penalties) 298 
spell DC (10 + spellcasting ability modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + 
penalties) 298 
spell slots 298-299 
spontaneous 298-299 
targets 304 
traditions (arcane, divine, occult, and primal) 297, 299 
triggers 305-306 
walls 306 
spellbook 204, 206, 288, 297 
spellcaster A spellcaster is a character whose class or archetype grants them the 
spellcasting class feature. The ability to cast focus spells or innate spells does not 
by itself make a character a spellcaster. 
spell attack roll You attempt a spell attack roll when targeting a creature with aimed 
magic. Your multiple attack penalty applies. Spell attack roll modifier = spellcasting 
ability modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties. 298, 305, 447-448 
spell DC Your spell DC measures how hard it is to resist your spells with saving throws 
or to counteract them. Spell DC = 10 + spellcasting ability modifier + proficiency 
bonus + other bonuses + penalties. 298, 448 
spirit (trait) Spirits are ephemeral creatures defined by their spiritual self and often 
acking a physical form. 
splash (trait) When you use a thrown weapon with the splash trait, you don’t add 
your Strength modifier to the damage roll. If an attack with a splash weapon fails, 
succeeds, or critically succeeds, all creatures within 5 feet of the target (including 
the target) take the listed splash damage. On a failure (but not a critical failure), 


= 


the target of the attack still takes the splash damage. Add splash damage together 
with the initial damage against the target before applying the target's weaknesses 
or resistances. You don't multiply splash damage on a critical hit. 544 
Squeeze (skill action) Move through a gap while exploring. (Acrobatics, trained) 241 
staff (trait) This magic item holds spells of a particular theme and allows a spellcaster 
to cast additional spells by preparing the staff. 592-595 


stage One of the steps of an affliction. 458 

stance (trait) A stance is a general combat strategy that you enter by asing an 
action with the stance trait, and that you remain in for some time. A stance lasts 
until you get knocked out, until its requirements (if any) are violated, until the 
encounter ends, or until you enter a new stance, whichever comes first. After you 
use an action with the stance trait, you can't use another one for 1 round. You can 
enter or be in a stance only in encounter mode. 


Stand * (basic action) Stand up from prone. 471 
starvation and thirst 500 
status bonus A bonus that typically comes from a spell or condition and represents a 
beneficial status. 444-445 
status penalty A penalty that typically comes from a spell or condition and represents 
a detrimental status. 444-445 
staves 280, 592-595 
Steal 9 (skill action) Pilfer an object in someone else's possession. (Thievery) 253 
Stealth (skill) Avoid detection and conceal items. (Dex) 251-252. 
Step *> (basic action) Move 5 feet without triggering reactions. 471 
Strength (Str) This ability score measures your brawn. 19 
armor Strength score 274 
Stride *9 (basic action) Move up to your Speed. 471 
Strike *® (basic action) Make an attack with a weapon or unarmed attack. 471 
structure (trait) 596 
structures 515, 596 
stunned (condition) You cant act for a number of actions or an amount of time. 622 
stupefied (condition) Your can't access your full mental faculties, and you have trouble 
casting spells. 622 
Subsist (skill action) Find food and shelter for free. (Society or Survival) 240 
GM advice 506 
success A result on a check that equals or exceeds the DC. Exceeding the DC by 10 
or more is even better-a critical success. If a stat block has no success entry, that 
means there is no effect on a success. 445-446 
suffocation 478 
summoned (trait) A creature called by a spell or effect gains the summoned trait. 
A summoned creature can't summon other creatures, create things of value, or 
cast spells that require a cost. It has the minion trait. If it tries to Cast a Spell 
of equal or higher level than the spell that summoned it, it overpowers the 
summoning magic, causing its own spell to fail and the summon spell to end. 
Otherwise, the summoned creature uses the standard abilities for a creature of 
its kind. It generally attacks your enemies to the best of its ability. If you can 
communicate with it, you can attempt to command it, but the GM determines 
the degree to which it follows your commands. 
Immediately when you finish Casting the Spell, the summoned creature 
uses its 2 actions for that turn. A spawn or other creature generated from a 
summoned creature returns to its unaltered state (usually a corpse in the case 
of spawn) once the summoned creature is gone. If it’s unclear what this state 
would be, the GM decides. Summoned creatures can be banished by various 
spells and effects. They are automatically banished if reduced to 0 Hit Points or 
if the spell that called them ends. 
Support *® Direct your animal companion to support you. 215 
surprise attack 499-500 
Survival (skill) Travel and survive in the wild. (Wis) 252-253 
Sustain a Spell * (action) Extend a spell with a sustained duration. 304 
Sustain an Activation *® (action) Extend a magic item activation with a sustained 
duration to the end of your next turn. 534 
sustained A spell with this duration can be extended with Sustain a Spell. 304 
sweep (weapon trait) 283 
Swim * (skill action) Move through the water. (Athletics) 243 
aquatic combat 478 
swim Speed 463 
Take Cover * (basic action) Gain cover, or improve cover to greater cover. 471 
talisman (trait) A talisman is a small object affixed to armor, a shield, or a weapon (called 
the affixed item). You must be wielding or wearing an item to activate a talisman 
attached to it. Once activated, a talisman burns out permanently. 565-570 


target 304, 455-456 
teleportation (trait) Teleportation effects allow you to instantaneously move from 
one point in space to another. Teleportation does not usually trigger reactions 
based on movement. 
temporary Hit Points 461 
temporary immunity An effect that makes a creature temporarily immune lets that 
creature avoid new effects of the same name, but it doesn't end anything caused 
by the effect that gave the temporary immunity. 453 
terrain 475-476, 497-498 
environment 512-517 
Thievery (skill) Steal objects and dismantle locks and other mechanisms. (Dex) 253 
thirst 500 
thrown (weapon trait) 283 
Tiny (size) 473-475 
tool alchemical tool 554 
tools and kits 288 
touch A spell range requiring you to touch the target. 304 
Track (skill action) Follow a creature's tracks. (Survival) 252-253 
GM advice 506 
tradition A fundamental category of magic (arcane, divine, occult, or primal). 297, 299 
Train Animal (general feat) 268, 506 
trained (proficiency rank) Add your level + 2 to associated rolls and DCs. Some skill 
actions and many other rules require you to be trained. 13, 444 
trait A keyword that conveys information about a rules element. Often a trait indicates 
how other rules interact with an ability, creature, item, or other rules element with 
that trait. Individual traits appear by name in this appendix. 13 
armor traits 274-275 
weapon traits 282-283 
transmutation (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated with the 
transmutation school of magic, typically changing something's form. 298 
trap (trait) A hazard or item with this trait is constructed to hinder interlopers. 520-522 
travel Speed 479 
treasure See also item. 508-511, 530-617 E : 
treasure tables 536-542 EUG 
Treat Disease (skill action) Remedy a disease in downtime. (Medicine, trained) 248 & TREASURE 
Treat Poison * (skill action) Help a poisoned patient recover. (Medicine, trained) — af 
248-249 
Treat Wounds (skill action) Restore Hit Points to a creature. (Medicine, trained) 249 APPENDIX 
tremorsense (sense) Detect the movement of creatures along surfaces. 465 OF 
trigger A specified event when you can use a reaction or free action. 18, 305-306, 462 
trip (weapon trait) 283 
Trip > (skill action) Knock a creature down. (Athletics) 243 
Tumble Through ¢ (skill action) Move through someone's space. (Acrobatics) 240 
turn During a round in an encounter, each creature takes a single turn. A creature 
typically uses up to 3 actions during its turn. 13, 468-469 
twin (weapon trait) 283 
two-hand (weapon trait) 283 
unarmed (weapon trait) 283 
unarmored defense 274, 275 
uncommon (trait) Something of uncommon rarity requires special training or comes 
from a particular culture or part of the world. Some character choices give access 
to uncommon options, and the GM can choose to allow access for anyone. 13 
unconscious (condition) You're asleep or knocked out. 622-623 
death, dying, and unconscious rules 459-461 
undead (trait) Once living, these creatures were infused after death with negative 
energy and soul-corrupting evil magic. When reduced to 0 Hit Points, an undead 
creature is destroyed. Undead creatures are damaged by positive energy, are 
healed by negative energy, and don't benefit from healing effects. 
undetected (condition) A creature doesn't know your precise location. 466-467, 623 
uneven ground (terrain) You must Balance or fall when crossing uneven ground. 476 
unfriendly (condition) An NPC with this condition doesn't like you. 623 
unique (trait) A rules element with this trait is one-of-a-kind. 13 
unlimited A spell with this duration lasts indefinitely. 305 
unnoticed (condition) A creature is entirely unaware you're present. 467, 623 
until the next time you make your daily preparations A spell with this duration lasts 
until you next prepare, and you can extend it by leaving its spell slot open. 305 
untrained (proficiency rank) The lowest proficiency rank (+0 bonus). 10, 13, 444 
usage An indication of how an item must be worn, held, or otherwise used. 535 


EQUIPMENT 


- SPELLS 
ME 
|. THE AGE OF 
- LOST OMENS 


PLAYING THE 
GAME 


c 


— ` EE c catenae ume 
PATHFINDER) CORE RULEBOOK & 
aiii et re itii i T — S 


vague sense A sense that can detect an unnoticed creature but not determine its 
position, such as a humanis sense of smell. 465 

verbal (spell component) 303 

versatile (weapon trait) 283 

virulent (trait) Afflictions with the virulent trait are harder to remove. You must 
succeed at two consecutive saves to reduce a virulent affliction's stage by 1. 
A critical success reduces a virulent affliction's stage by only 1 instead of by 2. 

visual (trait) A visual effect can affect only creatures that can see it. This applies 
only to visible parts of the effect, as determined by the GM. 

volley (weapon trait) 283 

wall 306, 515 

wand (trait) A wand contains a single spell which you can cast once per day. 
597-598 

watches 499-500 

water (trait) Effects with the water trait either manipulate or conjure water. Those 
that manipulate water have no effect in an area without water. Creatures with 
this trait consist primarily of water or have a connection to magical water. 

weakness Increases damage you take of a certain type. 453 


wealth A character's wealth by level. 508-511 
weapon 278-286 
magical and special weapons 599-602 
runes 580-585 
wielding 272 
weather 497, 517-518 
welcoming environment 8, 485-486 
Will A saving throw used to resist effects targeting the mind and personality. Will 
modifier = Wis modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties. 13, 448-449 
Wisdom (Wis) This ability score measures your awareness and intuition. 19 
wizard (class) 202-213 
arcane spell list 307-309 
multiclass archetype 231 
school spells 406-407 
wizard (trait) This indicates abilities from the wizard class. 
wounded (condition) You've returned from the brink of death but remain at 
risk. 623 
XP (Experience Points) See also Experience Points. 8, 507-508 


OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 


The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc. ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 

1. Definitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have 
contributed Open Game Content; (b) “Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modification, 
correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in 
which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, 
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d) “Open 
Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and 
routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the 
Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative 
works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means 
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts, 
creatures, characters, stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, 
artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, 
photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, 
spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, 
locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, 
symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified 
as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open 
Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used 
by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the 
Open Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, 
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. 
(h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of this agreement. 

2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that 
the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a 
notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this 
License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any 
Open Game Content distributed using this License. 

3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the 
terms of this License. 

4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant 
You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License 
to Use, the Open Game Content. 

5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game 
Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient 
rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 

6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to 
include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying 
or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's name to the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 

7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as 
to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of 
each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with 
any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content 
except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or 
Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a 
challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open 
Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 

8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of 
the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content. 

9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this 
License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open 
Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License. 

0. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open 
Game Content You distribute. 

1. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the 
name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 

2. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License 
with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental 
regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 

3. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein 
and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall 
survive the termination of this License. 
4. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be 
reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 

5. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 

Open Game License v 1.0a O 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 

System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors: Jonathan Tweet, Monte 
Cook, and Skip Williams, based on material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson. 

Pathfinder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Logan Bonner, Jason Bulmahn, 
Stephen Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter. 


PAIZO INC. 


Creative Directors * James Jacobs, Robert G. McCreary, and Sarah E. Robinson 

Director of Game Design * Jason Bulmahn 

Managing Developers * Adam Daigle and Amanda Hamon 

Organized Play Lead Developer * John Compton 

Developers « Eleanor Ferron, Jason Keeley, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen, Joe Pasini, 
Patrick Renie, Michael Sayre, Chris S. Sims, and Linda Zayas-Palmer 

Starfinder Design Lead + Owen K.C. Stephens 

Starfinder Society Developer * Thurston Hillman 

Senior Designer * Stephen Radney-MacFarland 

Designers * Logan Bonner and Mark Seifter 

Managing Editor + Judy Bauer 

Senior Editor * Christopher Paul Carey 

Editors * James Case, Leo Glass, Lyz Liddell, Adrian Ng, Lu Pellazar, and Jason Tondro 

Art Director * Sonja Morris 

Senior Graphic Designers + Emily Crowell and Adam Vick 

Production Artist + Tony Barnett 

Franchise Manager * Mark Moreland 

Project Manager Gabriel Waluconis 


Paizo CEO * Lisa Stevens 

Chief Creative Officer + Erik Mona 

Chief Financial Officer + John Parrish 
Chief Operations Officer • Jeffrey Alvarez 
Chief Technical Officer + Vic Wertz 


Director of Sales + Pierce Watters 
Sales Associate + Cosmo Eisele 
Vice President of Marketing & Licensing « Jim Butler 
Marketing Manager * Dan Tharp 

Licensing Manager * Glenn Elliott 

Public Relations Manager * Aaron Shanks 

Customer Service & Community Manager * Sara Marie 
Operations Manager * Will Chase 

Organized Play Manager * Tonya Woldridge 

Human Resources Generalist + Angi Hodgson 
Accountant + Christopher Caldwell 

Data Entry Clerk * B. Scott Keim 


Director of Technology * Raimi Kong 

Web Production Manager * Chris Lambertz 
Senior Software Developer + Gary Teter 
Webstore Coordinator + Rick Kunz 


Customer Service Team * Katina Davis, Virginia Jordan, Samantha Phelan, and 
Diego Valdez 

Warehouse Team « Laura Wilkes Carey, Mika Hawkins, Heather Payne, Jeff Strand, and 
Kevin Underwood 

Website Team * Brian Bauman, Robert Brandenburg, Whitney Chatterjee, Erik Keith, 
Josh Thornton, and Andrew White 


This product is compliant with the Open Game License (OGL) and is suitable for use with the Pathfinder 
Roleplaying Game (Second Edition). 


Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game 
License version 1.0a, Section (e), and are not Open Game Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, 
proper nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all adjectives, names, titles, and descriptive terms 
derived from proper nouns), Chapter 8 (with the exception of domains), artworks, characters, dialogue, locations, 
organizations, plots, storylines, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game 
Content, or are exclusively derived from previous Open Game Content, or that are in the public domain are not 
included in this declaration.) 


External Tools: Lines and veils were originally published in Sex & Sorcery, by Ron Edwards, © 2003, Adept 
Press. The X-Card by John Stavropoulos (http://tinyurl.com/x-card-rpg) is published under a Creative Commons 
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC BY-SA 3.0) License. They are used here by permission, and are not Open 
Game Content released under the Open Game License. 


Open Game Content: Except for material designated as Product Identity or External Tools (see above), the game 
mechanics of this Paizo game product are Open Game Content, as defined in the Open Game License version 
1.0a, Section 1(d). No portion of this work other than the material designated as Open Game Content may be 
reproduced in any form without written permission. 


Pathfinder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc. All Rights Reserved. Paizo, Paizo Inc., the Paizo golem 
logo, Pathfinder, the Pathfinder logo, Pathfinder Society, and Starfinder are registered trademarks of Paizo Inc.; 
Pathfinder Adventure Card Game, Pathfinder Adventure Card Society, Pathfinder Adventure Path, Pathfinder 
Adventures, Pathfinder Cards, Pathfinder Combat Pad, Pathfinder Flip-Mat, Pathfinder Flip-Tiles, Pathfinder Lost 
Omens, Pathfinder Roleplaying Game, the Pathfinder P logo, and Starfinder Society are trademarks of Paizo Inc. 


Fourth printing 2023. 
Printed in China. 


WA 


ATHFINDERS 


' dioe io MENS 
"DWORED/GUIDE : * 


THIS COMPREHENSIVE HARDCOVER OVERVIEW OF THE WORLD OF PATHFINDER PROVIDES EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW 
FOR A LIFETIME OF ADVENTURE IN THE AGE OF LOST OMENS. THE GOD OF HUMANITY IS DEAD AND PROPHECY IS BROKEN, 
LEAVING HEROES JUST LIKE YOU TO CARVE THEIR OWN DESTINIES OUT OF AN UNCERTAIN FUTURE! 


| HARDCOVER 535.99 


i ^ © 2020, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem logo, Pathfinder, and the Pathfinder logo are registered trademarks of Paizo Inc.; H H 
ii the Pathfinder P logo, Pathfinder Adventure Path, Pathfinder Roleplaying Game, and Pathfinder Lost Omens are trademarks of Paizo Inc. paizo.com/pathfinder 


MORE THAN 400 OF FANTASY’S FIERCEST FOES FILL THIS GIANT COMPENDIUM OF THE MOST POPULAR CREATURES IN THE 
PATHFINDER RPG! FROM FAMILIAR ENEMIES LIKE ORCS AND DRAGONS TO NEW BEASTS LIKE THE NIGHTMARISH NILITH, 
THIS TOME IS CRAWLING WITH CREATURES PERFECT FOR YOUR PATHFINDER ADVENTURES! 


r R ^ x LL ~ r : =- 4 
NES HARDCOVER $49:99 "AND DELUXESHARDCOVER!$89:99.— 
h 3 = 7. ot : € 
; x >» An 
an S VoU A 
r a ev Pa ! "| 
© 2020, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem logo, Pathfinder, and the Pathfinder logo are registered trademarks of Paizo Inc.; e 4 
3o , the Pathfinder P logo, Pathfinder Adventure Path, Pathfinder Roleplaying Game, and Pathfinder Lost Omens are trademarks of Paizo Inc. paizo.com/pathfinder 
QC T. bx ]| 


"a RULEBOOK | | 


ADVANCE YOUR GAME 


This comprehensive guide to the Pathfinder roleplaying game provides 
everything you need to set out into a world of limitless fantasy adventure! 
Choose from ancestries like elf, human, and goblin and classes like alchemist, 
fighter, and sorcerer to create a hero of your own design, destined to become 
a legend! The new Pathfinder rules are easier to learn and faster to play, 
and they offer deeper customization than ever before! 
This indispensable volume contains the core rules for players and 
Game Masters, and is your first step on a heroic new journey! 


US $59.99 
N 978-1-64078-168-9 


ISB 


° © 
paizo s 9 781640 781689 
$. mah = y 3 f Printed in China. 
XR, i 


a 


E ~ a 


